AdvertisementBy CHRISTINA CARONMARCH 31  2018
Gov. Jerry Brown of California on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing possible deportation  drawing criticism from President Trump and heightening continued tensions between Washington and California.The  five immigrants were among 56 pardons and 14 commutations Mr. Brown granted on Friday — Good Friday and the start of Passover — to those who have been out of custody for at least 10 years and have exhibited “exemplary behavior” after their convictions  the governor’s press office said.They included a United States military veteran  Sokha Chhan  a refugee from Cambodia who served nearly a year in jail for the misdemeanors of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant and threatening a crime with the intent to terrorize. Phann Pheach  another Cambodian refugee who was pardoned  served six months for possession of a controlled substance for sale and obstructing a police officer.Mr. Brown also granted pardons to Daniel Maher  who spent five years in prison after being convicted of kidnapping  robbery and using a firearm  and who is now the director of a recycling program in Berkeley  Calif.; Sergio Mena  who was sentenced in 2003 and put on probation for three years for possession of a controlled substance for sale; and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz  who served five months for vehicle theft.AdvertisementOn Saturday morning Mr. Trump tweeted a list of crimes that he linked to the five who were pardoned and asked  “Is this really what the great people of California want?”
            Governor Jerry “Moonbeam” Brown pardoned 5 criminal illegal aliens whose crimes include (1) Kidnapping and Robbery (2) Badly beating wife and threatening a crime with intent to terrorize (3) Dealing drugs. Is this really what the great people of California want? @FoxNews It was the latest discord between Mr. Trump and leaders in California  where lawmakers have been actively seeking to disrupt Mr. Trump’s policies — not only by passing immigration laws that run counter to the administration’s agenda  but also by expanding environmental protections  raising gasoline taxes to pay for highway construction  and resisting moves to weaken rules for greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards for automobiles.Advertisement“We will definitely not sit by idly as the Trump administration tries to deport immigrants  throw people off health care  ignore climate change and steal our water ” State Senator Scott Wiener  a Democrat  said in January. “It’s about playing defense to whatever the administration throws at us — but also offense in terms of continuing California’s push for progressive social change.”On Friday  the same day Mr. Brown announced the pardons  Mr. Trump declared April “Second Chance Month ” highlighting the need for ex-convicts to get an opportunity to become contributing members of society.“I am committed to advancing reform efforts to prevent crime  improve re-entry and reduce recidivism ” Mr. Trump said in a news release.Mr. Brown  who is serving the final 12 months of his second stint as governor  has granted 1 115 pardons and 51 commutations since taking office in 2011  Evan Westrup  the governor’s press secretary said on Saturday. It amounts to far more than his recent predecessors.Some of these cases involved immigrants who faced deportation or who had already been deported. An exact breakdown was not immediately available.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In December  Mr. Brown pardoned two men who came to the United States as children  after their families fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia  and who were scheduled to be deported for their crimes  The Sacramento Bee reported. Last year  he pardoned three veterans who had been deported to Mexico and in 2015  he pardoned a man who was fighting deportation after serving two decades for burglary and kidnapping  among other crimes.For ex-convict immigrants  deportation is a severe punishment that is often unwarranted  said Angelica Salas  executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights  which seeks to change California’s laws to help immigrants avoid deportation.Advertisement“We believe that deportation is an enhancement to their sentences that goes way too far ” she said. “They’ve actually paid their debt to society.”Immigration law is “so punitive  that it just does not forgive ” she added. “Most judges  their hands are tied behind their back ” she said  and the inability to have any discretion promotes large-scale deportation.Mr. Trump visited California in mid-March to inspect border wall prototypes designed to keep out undocumented immigrants. The trip came one week after Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued the state over three new immigration laws he called unconstitutional  saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to deport criminals who were born outside the United States.Mr. Brown  a Democrat  said at the time that Mr. Sessions was “basically going to war” with California.In Mr. Trump’s weekly address on Saturday he took another swipe at California  blaming so-called sanctuary cities for the opioid epidemic  and referring to California as a “sanctuary state” that has become a hub for transporting heroin across the southern border. He also admonished Oakland’s mayor for helping “criminal aliens” elude the authorities because of the city’s “dangerous sanctuary policies.”“Sanctuary cities put innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals and heartless drug dealers ” Mr. Trump added. “These are bad people.”That argument — that immigrants bring crime to America — has influenced many of the Trump administration’s policies on immigration. Studies have shown  however  that immigration does not drive crime. According to one recent analysis  a large-scale collaboration by four universities  the areas with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.“The data is crystal clear that immigrants do not lead to an increase in crime ” said Ali Noorani  executive director of the National Immigration Forum. “I think opponents to immigration like to cherry-pick egregious cases where the individual does not belong in the U.S. and therefore marginalize an entire community.”A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Assails Pardons  Given to 5 Immigrants By California Governor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement

      By GAIL COLLINS

MARCH 30  2018

Besides the Easter holiday  this weekend we’re also celebrating April Fools’ Day  an excellent reminder that the country is now a quarter of the way through the second year of the Donald Trump presidency.Hang in there  people! To see if you’ve been paying attention  here’s a quiz.To start off the new year  Trump boasted that compared with North Korea’s leader  he had …“Much smarter” foreign policy advisers.A “much bigger” nuclear button.“Much taller” friends in professional basketball.In her much-watched TV interview  Stormy Daniels said she whacked Donald Trump on the rear end after he …Told her he wanted to play a sex game where she was Vladimir Putin.Showed her a magazine with his picture on the cover.Said she reminded him of “a couple of my wives.”The White House physician  Ronny Jackson  announced that Trump had passed a mental cognition test in which he correctly identified animals and drew hands on a clock. Jackson also told reporters that in conversations with his patient  he learned that the president is …“Very sharp.”“Stupendously self-obsessed.”“Just great at picking out the rhino.”This week  Trump appointed Jackson to be …The first White House physician-chef  charged with perfecting a new low-calorie version of fried chicken and chocolate milkshakes.Secretary of the second-largest agency in the entire United States government.House doctor at Mar-a-Lago.Rex Tillerson knew he was on the way out as secretary of state when John Kelly called to warn him that “you may get a …“Tweet.”“Dead fish.”“Blank card on National Secretary Day.”H. R. McMaster was forced out of his job as national security adviser. His replacement  John Bolton  still thinks …It was a good idea to invade Iraq.It was a good idea to buy real estate in 2008.Trump likes his mustache.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos made news with a CBS interview in which she said …“I have no earthly idea what I’m doing here.”“I still think having guns in the schools to protect against bears is a smart call.”“I have not intentionally visited schools that are underperforming.”Scott Pruitt  head of the Environmental Protection Agency  said he needs to fly first class because of the danger of …Angry environmentalists.Missing a chance to shake hands with the pilots.Leg cramps in coach.The head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention resigned after Politico revealed she …Had a disease.Bought shares in a tobacco company shortly after she took office.Was taking bets on who got fired next.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee shortly after the president made it clear he wished there were more immigrants from places like Norway and fewer from places like Africa. In her testimony  she said she did not really know …Whether Africa was a continent.If Norwegians were generally white.What she was doing there. Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing are …Lawyers Donald Trump announced he was hiring last week and then dropped like a pair of wet socks.Olympic silver medalists starring in a new reality show  “So You Think You Can Ice Dance.”Owners of a dancing squirrel whose video went viral.When the Trump administration opened up massive amounts of the nation’s coast to offshore drilling  it exempted Florida because  officials explained  Florida is …“Where Mar-a-Lago is.”“Where that big Senate race is.”“Unique.”Donald Jr. recently made news when he …Took his kids to the circus and shot the elephant.Broke up with his wife and got a permit to carry a concealed weapon in Pennsylvania.Tried out for a roller derby team.Meanwhile  Eric Trump …Bragged on Twitter that he was an answer to a “Jeopardy” question.Was named head of a new Trump organization dedicated to bringing “luxury hotel life to Papua New Guinea.”Wrote a tell-all autobiography titled “Dad Actually Likes Me Best.”AdvertisementAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  8:24 P.M. E.D.T.
LOS ANGELES —  President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation  including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.In a tweet   Trump referred to Brown as "Moonbeam " referencing a nickname a newspaper columnist coined for him in the 1970s. Trump then listed the ex-convicts' crimes before they were pardoned Friday. They include misdemeanor domestic violence  drug possession  and kidnapping and robbery.Trump wrote: "Is this really what the great people of California want?"A spokesman for Brown responded to a request for comment with more information about the five men but did not directly address Trump's criticism.In a news release about the pardons on Friday  the governor's office said that "those granted pardons all completed their sentences years ago and the majority were convicted of drug-related or other non-violent crimes."Advertisement"Pardons are not granted unless they are earned " the governor's office said.Brown's pardons marked the third time the Democrat has intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation over convictions. Brown has accused the Trump administration of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.AdvertisementBrown's pardons don't automatically stop deportation proceedings  but eliminate the convictions on which authorities based their deportation.Trump has been criticized for his own pardon  that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio  who was convicted last year of a misdemeanor contempt charge for flouting the courts in carrying out his signature immigration patrols.Trump's pardon spared Arpaio from a possible jail sentence. The 85-year-old longtime lawman announced a run for Senate in January.Those pardoned Friday by Brown included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach  who face deportation to Cambodia  a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served about a year in jail.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher  who served five years in prison stemming from the 1994 armed robbery of a San Jose auto parts store. He was convicted of kidnapping  robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm in the case.Maher is facing deportation to China  where he has never lived. Maher is from Macau  which became part of China after his family immigrated to California when he was 3.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz. Mena served three years of probation after being convicted of possessing illegal drugs in 2003. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 car theft conviction.AdvertisementThe governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California's longest-serving governor has now issued 1 519 pardons  including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.___Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco. Elias reported from San Francisco.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  4:09 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  Spring break couldn't have come at a better time for Melania Trump.With fresh details spilling into the headlines daily about how Donald Trump allegedly cheated on her early in their marriage  the former model escaped the intense glare by spending the past week at the family's estate in Palm Beach  Florida  with their 12-year-old son  Barron.But even then  there was no perfect refuge from the attention to recent legal activity related to the president's past conduct with women.On Mrs. Trump's first full day away  when the president also was at their Mar-a-Lago estate  Trump had dinner not with her but with attorney Michael Cohen — who paid porn actress Stormy Daniels $130 000 in 2016 to keep her from going public with her story of a 2006 tryst with Trump. The Trumps did dine together on Thursday night after the president returned to Florida  with boxing promoter Don King stopping by to chat.Some say the first lady should exit her 13-year union with Trump  much like Hillary Clinton was urged to do after President Bill Clinton's affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky became public in the late 1990s.Advertisement"Melania should do for this generation of girls what Hillary Clinton did not do for mine and leave her jerk of a husband " conservative commentator S.E. Cupp wrote in an opinion piece that recently was splashed across the front page of the New York Daily News — one of Trump's hometown newspapers — with the headline "Dump Trump!"AdvertisementTrump himself recently joked about the possibility of his wife leaving him. She was seated at the head table at a Washington dinner last month where the president  in a speech that traditionally pokes at friends and adversaries  addressed the heavy staff churn at the White House."Now the question everyone keeps asking is  'Who's going to be the next to leave? Steve Miller or Melania?'" he said  referring to policy adviser Stephen Miller. "That is terrible  honey  but you love me  right?"A Marist-McClatchy Poll in February found the public divided on the issue. Forty-three percent said the first lady should stay married to Trump  34 percent said she should leave her husband and 23 percent weren't sure what she should do.Through it all  Mrs. Trump has kept a steely silence on claims by Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal that they had sexual relationships with Trump that began in 2006 just after the future first lady gave birth.Stephanie Grisham  a spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump  responded to questions about Daniels and McDougal by saying the first lady is "focused on being a mom" and spent the break working on future projects  including Monday's annual White House Easter Egg Roll and the coming state visit of French President Emmanuel Macron on April 24.Mrs. Trump kept up an everything's-normal Twitter feed during the week  posting about her recent participation in the State Department's courage awards  a White House discussion she had convened on cyberbullying  an upcoming opioids exhibit near the White House  White House garden tours and her surprise visit to a Florida hospital Thursday to deliver Easter baskets to young patients.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She is silent now on her husband's dealings with other women  but has traversed this awkward terrain before."People think and talk about me like  'Oh Melania  Oh poor Melania '" she told CNN in a 2016 interview. "Don't feel sorry for me. I can handle everything."AdvertisementShe gave that interview after Trump was heard on a decade-old audiotape describing how he had grabbed women by their genitals and kissed them without permission. Trump at the time also faced accusations of sexual misconduct from more than a dozen women. He has called the women's charges false  and said he was engaging in "locker-room talk" on the tape.Some fault Mrs. Trump for making the "politically freighted choice" of going ahead with what the White House said is her traditional spring break getaway.Iowa State University history professor Stacy Cordery said most people will forgive an erring man when his wife stands by him. But "we don't see any evidence of her standing by him in that way. Even though she's an extremely private person  she could still appear at his side  but she's choosing not to " added Cordery  a first lady scholar.The allegations don't appear to have hurt Trump politically. The White House often notes that Trump was elected even though voters knew about sexual misconduct allegations against him. Trump's approval rating  meanwhile  is up 7 points since last month to 42 percent  according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.Friends say the first lady  who met Trump while his divorce from his second wife was being finalized  can handle what's coming at her."The first lady is very strong. She's  unfortunately  used to attacks of fake news " said Paolo Zampolli  her friend and former modeling agent.___Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show that the first lady met  not married  Trump while his divorce was being finalized.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  1:14 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump launched his second attack in a week on Amazon.com Inc on Saturday  accusing the world's biggest online retailer of getting unfairly cheap rates from the U.S. Postal Service and not paying enough tax.Trump's comments on Twitter reiterated criticisms he made on Thursday about the company. He may have been prompted by a report from news website Axios saying he was obsessed with Amazon and considering ways to rein in the company's power  possibly with federal antitrust or competition laws.Investor concerns about regulatory action sent Amazon shares down 3.3 percent over Wednesday and Thursday  knocking $24 billion off the company's market value."While we are on the subject  it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars " Trump tweeted on Saturday.AdvertisementA Citigroup analysis last year showed that if the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) reallocated costs to account for the growing volume of packages it delivers  it would cost $1.46 more to deliver each package. Federal regulators  which review contracts made by USPS  have not raised any issues with the terms of its contract with Amazon.Advertisement"If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion' " Trump tweeted  although it was not clear what report he was citing. "This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A White House spokeswoman said on Thursday the administration has no Amazon-related action at this time.Trump also accused the Washington Post  owned privately by Amazon Chief Executive and founder Jeff Bezos  of being a "lobbyist" for Amazon.The newspaper  a frequent target of Trump's ire  won a Pulitzer Prize last year for its critical investigation of Trump's donations to charities.Amazon declined comment. The Washington Post did not immediately reply to a request for comment.(Reporting by Bill Rigby; Editing by Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  4:27 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week  proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually  no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles of existing barrier.And on Saturday  he ripped Amazon with a shaky claim that its contract with the post office is a "scam."Trump and his officials departed from reality on a variety of subjects in recent days: the census  Amazon's practices and the makeup of the Supreme Court among them. Here's a look at some statements and their veracity:TRUMP: "Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL!" — tweet Wednesday  showing photos of workers building a fence.TRUMP:  "We're going to be starting work  literally  on Monday  on not only some new wall -- not enough  but we're working that very quickly -- but also fixing existing walls and existing acceptable fences." — Trump  speaking the previous week after signing a bill financing the government.AdvertisementTHE FACTS: Trump's wrong. No new work began on Monday or any other time this past week. And the photos Trump tweeted were misleading. They showed work that's been going on for more than a month on a small border wall replacement project in Calexico  California  that has nothing to do with the federal budget he signed into law last week.AdvertisementThe Calexico project that began Feb. 21 to replace a little more than 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) of border wall was financed during the 2017 budget year. A barrier built in the 1990s mainly from recycled metal scraps is being torn down and replaced with bollard-style barriers that are 30 feet (9.1 meters) high.Ronald D. Vitiello  acting deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection  defended the president's statements  saying Friday "there's construction" underway.___TRUMP: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!" — tweet Saturday.TRUMP: "I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others  they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments  use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.)  and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!" — tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting Amazon's record on taxes  the U.S. Postal Service's financial situation and the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.People who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it  however.As for the post office  package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that's lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs — not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce  the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages  but that hasn't been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail  which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.AdvertisementWhile the Postal Service's losses can't be attributed to its package business  Trump's claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels.  The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner  Jeff Bezos  owns The Washington Post  one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___TRUMP: "Because of the $700 & $716 Billion Dollars gotten to rebuild our Military  many jobs are created and our Military is again rich. Building a great Border Wall  with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country  is all about National Defense. Build WALL through M!" — tweets Sunday and Monday.THE FACTS: Trump is floating the idea of using "M'' — the Pentagon's military budget — to pay for his wall with Mexico. Such a move would almost certainly require approval from Congress and there's plenty of reason to be skeptical about the notion of diverting military money for this purpose.Only Congress has the power under the Constitution to determine federal appropriations  leaving the Trump administration little authority to shift money without lawmakers' approval.Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to reveal specifics  but said Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority.___DAVID SHULKIN  citing reasons Trump fired him as Veterans Affairs secretary:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family's character  I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity." — op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous  though politics contributed to his dismissal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.White House support for Shulkin eroded after a blistering report in February by VA's internal watchdog  a non-partisan office. The inspector general's office concluded that he had violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The inspector general also said Shulkin's chief of staff had doctored emails to justify bringing the secretary's wife to Europe with him at taxpayer expense.AdvertisementIt is true  though  that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call  John Ullyot  a top communications aide  and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin's removal after the release of the inspector general's report. The staff director declined to do so.  Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general's report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4 000 to cover the costs of his wife's coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and point to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___TRUMP: "THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!" — tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: As a basics civics lesson  Trump's tweet falls short. The Supreme Court is the unelected branch of government and no party can "hold" it. That said  both parties try to win confirmation of justices who are considered likely to vote the way they want.Republican-nominated justices have formed a majority of the Supreme Court for nearly 50 years. The five more conservative justices were appointed by Republicans while the four more liberal justices were Democratic nominees.Republicans would have the opportunity to cement ideological balance in their favor if Justice Anthony Kennedy — the most moderate of the conservatives — or one of the older and more liberal justices were to retire with Trump in office and Republicans in control of the Senate.Trump was citing retired Justice John Paul Stevens  who called in a New York Times article for repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for gun control legislation. Democratic leaders are not proposing repeal of the amendment  as Trump implies. Also noteworthy: Stevens was nominated by a Republican president  Gerald Ford.___WHITE HOUSE SPOKESWOMAN SARAH SANDERS  on the Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census: "This is a question that's been included in every census since 1965 with the exception of 2010  when it was removed. ... And again  this is something that has been part of the census for decades and something that the Department of Commerce felt strongly needed to be included again." — press briefing Tuesday.AdvertisementCOMMERCE DEPARTMENT: "Between 1820 and 1950  almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form." — statement on Monday.THE FACTS: Sanders is incorrect. The Commerce Department statement is also problematic. Both are trying to play down the risk of a severe undercount of the population if many immigrants  intimidated by the citizenship question  refuse to participate.The Census Bureau hasn't included a citizenship question in its once-a-decade survey sent to all U.S. households since 1950  before the Civil Rights era and passage of a 1965 law designed to help ensure minority groups in the count are fully represented.The nation's count is based on the total resident population — both citizens and noncitizens — and used to determine how many U.S. representatives each state gets in the U.S. House.The citizenship question was not in the 1960 census  according to a copy of the form posted on the Census Bureau website  and no census was held in 1965.From 1970 to 2000  the question was included only in the long-form section of the census survey  sent to a portion of U.S. households. After 2000  the question has been asked on the Census Bureau's American Community Survey  a separate poll designed to replace the census long form and sent only to a sample of U.S. households.The Commerce Department's assertion that the citizenship question was asked on "almost" every decennial census between 1820 and 1950 also pushes the limits of reality. According to the Census Bureau  the question wasn't asked in four of those censuses —1840  1850  1860 or 1880.Between 1820 and 1950  a total of 14 censuses were held. That means more than 1 in 4 surveys during that time period lacked the citizenship question.Not exactly "almost."___Associated Press writers Mark Sherman and Cal Woodward in Washington and Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.Advertisement___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bdWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  8:08 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there  the Wall Street Journal reported  citing officials.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report noting that Washington had recently committed an additional $200 million to support early recovery efforts in Syria  the Journal reported.The decision is in line with Trump's declaration on Thursday when he said that America would exit Syria  according to officials  the Journal reported.An additional aid of $200 million was pledged by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February in Kuwait at a meeting of the global coalition against Islamic State.(Reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  8:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is asking the Supreme Court to dismiss a case about emails the government wants as part of a drug trafficking investigation.In a motion Friday  the administration says the Cloud Act's passage as part of last week's spending bill resolves the case.The legislation updated a 32-year-old law governing how authorities can get electronic communications held by technology companies. The issue was whether Microsoft had to turn over emails stored on its server in Ireland.The act makes clear the government can obtain the emails. The government says it got a new warrant for them Friday.The administration says the justices should throw out an appeals court ruling declaring that emails stored abroad are beyond the government's reach and direct a lower court to dismiss the case.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  3:12 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump is again attacking online retailer Amazon.com  calling its business deal with the U.S. Postal Service to deliver packages a money-losing agreement that hurts U.S. taxpayers. Federal regulators  however  have found the contract with Amazon to be profitable.In tweets Saturday  Trump said "the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars."He added: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"Amazon has been a consistent recipient of Trump's ire. He is sore because its founder  Jeff Bezos  owns The Washington Post  which Trump has labeled "fake news" after the newspaper reported unfavorable developments during his campaign and presidency.AdvertisementTrump made the link himself in Saturday's tweets  accusing Amazon of using the "Fake Washington Post" as a lobbyist. The Post and Bezos have responded to Trump's lobbyist claims in the past by declaring that Bezos is not involved in any journalistic decisions at the paper. Amazon.com Inc. and The Washington Post declined to comment Saturday.AdvertisementAmazon lives and dies by shipping  and an increase in the rates it pays could certainly do some damage. Amazon sends packages via the post office  FedEx  UPS and other services.But while the U.S. Postal Service has lost money for 11 years  package delivery — which has been a bright spot for the service — is not the reason.Boosted by e-commerce  the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages  but that hasn't been enough to offset pension and health care costs as well as declines in first-class letters and marketing mail. Together  letters and marketing mail make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In arguing that the Postal Service is losing money on delivering packages for Amazon  Trump appears to be citing some Wall Street analyses that argue the Postal Service's formula for calculating its costs is outdated. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup did conclude that the Postal Service was charging below market rates as a whole on parcels. Still  federal regulators have reviewed the Amazon contract with the Postal Service each year and determined it to be profitable.A spokesman for the U.S. Postal Service declined to comment. An independent agency  it does not use taxpayer money for its operations.The post office does not break down what is driving its growth  but online ordering from retailers  particularly Amazon.com  has revolutionized the way goods are bought and delivered. The Postal Service reached new highs last year in holiday package delivery  with more than 850 million U.S. parcels delivered from Thanksgiving to New Year's Eve  according to figures compiled by industry tracker ShipMatrix Inc.The Postal Service says it set a record on Dec. 18 when more than 37 million packages were delivered  the most in a single day in its more than 240 year history.Amazon has taken some steps toward becoming more self-reliant in shipping. Last year  it announced it would build a worldwide air cargo hub in Kentucky  about 13 miles southwest of Cincinnati.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  5:56 A.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria  two senior administration officials said on Friday  a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria  according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilise areas recaptured from Islamic State  the paper said.AdvertisementThe funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.AdvertisementThe decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield  Ohio  on Thursday  where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach  Florida  estate."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon " Trump said on Thursday  based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon  we're coming out " Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country  where we belong  where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria  U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump still needs to be convinced of that  said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.AdvertisementTrump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking towards having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that " one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete  however  the official added.The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward  the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out " the official said. About 2 000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan  ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton  named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton  John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio   Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »