AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook's CEO apologized for the Cambridge Analytica scandal with ads in multiple U.S. and British newspapers Sunday  saying the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it.The ads signed by Mark Zuckerberg said a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. "This was a breach of trust  and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time. We're now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again " the ads said.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a political consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign  got data inappropriately. The firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society.Facebook's stock value has dropped more than $70 billion since the revelations were first published.Among the newspapers with the ads were The New York Times and The Washington Post in the U.S. and The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph in the United Kingdom.AdvertisementThe ads said Facebook is limiting the data apps receive when users sign in. It's also investigating every app that had access to large amounts of data. "We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected " the ads stated.Zuckerberg closed the ads by saying: "I promise to do better for you."Cambridge Analytica got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.AdvertisementThe Trump campaign paid the firm $6 million during the 2016 election  although it has since distanced itself from Cambridge.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  6:08 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on Facebook's data collection from members (all times local):6:05 p.m.On the same day Facebook bought ads in U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal  the social media site faced new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices.The website ars technica reported that users who checked data collected by Facebook found that it had two or more years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and text messages.Facebook says the information is uploaded to secure servers and comes only from users who opt-in to allow it . Spokeswomen say the data is not shared with friends or any outside apps. They say the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others.Facebook says on its website that it never sells the data and does not collect content of text messages or calls. But spokeswomen did not answer a question about why exactly it needs phone call and text message information.AdvertisementFacebook says the data was used only from Android phones.___2:27 p.m.Facebook's CEO has taken out full-page ads in multiple U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The ads say the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it. The ads were signed by Mark Zuckerberg and appeared in Sunday newspapers.According to the ads  a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. Zuckerberg said this was a breach of trust and that Facebook is taking steps to make sure it doesn't happen again.AdvertisementFacebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  got data inappropriately. The social media platform's stock value has dropped nearly $70 billion since the revelations were first published.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  7:20 A.M. E.D.T.
On the same day Facebook bought ads in U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal  the social media site faced new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices.The website Ars Technica reported that users who checked data gathered by Facebook on them found that it had years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and text messages.Facebook said Sunday the information is uploaded to secure servers and comes only from Android users who opt-in to allow it. Spokeswomen say the data is not sold or shared with users' friends or outside apps. They say the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others.The company also says in a website posting that it does not collect the content of text messages or calls. A spokeswoman told the Associated Press that Facebook uses the information to rank contacts in Messenger so they are easier to find  and to suggest people to call.AdvertisementUsers get the option to allow data collection when they sign up for Messenger or Facebook Lite  the Facebook posting said. "If you chose to turn this feature on  we will begin to continuously log this information " the posting said.AdvertisementThe data collection can be turned off in a user's settings  and all previously collected call and text history shared on the app will be deleted  Facebook said.The feature was first introduced on Facebook Messenger in 2015 and added later on Facebook Lite.Messages were left Sunday seeking comment about security from Google officials  who make the Android operating system.Reports of the data collection came as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took out ads in multiple U.S. and British Sunday newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The ads say the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it.According to the ads  a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. Zuckerberg said this was a "breach of trust" and that Facebook is taking steps to make sure it doesn't happen again.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  got data inappropriately. The social media platform's stock value has dropped over $70 billion since the revelations were first published.Among the newspapers with the ads were The New York Times and The Washington Post in the U.S.  and The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph in the United Kingdom.The ads said Facebook is limiting the data apps received when users sign in. It's also investigating every app that had access to large amounts of data. "We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected " the ads stated.Cambridge Analytica got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.AdvertisementThe Trump campaign paid the firm $6 million during the 2016 election  although it has since distanced itself from Cambridge.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  11:32 P.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Allegations that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official mobile application was sending personal user data to a third party without their consent caused a furore on social media in India and drew criticism from the leader of the main opposition party on Sunday.Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied https://twitter.com/BJP4India/status/977811651989680128 the allegations and said the data was being used only for analytics to offer all users the "most contextual content".A security researcher  who has previously highlighted some vulnerabilities in India's national identity card project and who tweets under the pseudonym Elliot Alderson  posted https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977267255309463554 a series of tweets on Saturday stating the app was sending personal user data to a third-party domain that was traced to an American company.The tweets  which come at a time of heightened sensitivity around the alleged misuse of personal data amid the unfolding Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversy https://www.reuters.com/article/us-facebook-cambridge-analytica-apology/facebooks-zuckerberg-says-sorry-to-britons-with-newspaper-apology-ads-idUSKBN1H10AF  triggered a stir in India on social media.Advertisement"Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App  I give all your data to my friends in American companies " wrote https://twitter.com/RahulGandhi/status/977778259810226177 opposition Congress Party Chief Rahul Gandhi in a Twitter message on Sunday.AdvertisementThe BJP quickly responded on Twitter  saying Gandhi was trying to divert attention. The BJP has accused the Congress of engaging Cambridge Analytica in India  a charge the opposition party has denied.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Alderson  who initially pointed out that the Narendra Modi app was sharing data with a third party without the consent of users  earlier on Sunday posted a new tweet saying the app had "quietly" updated https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977847395743617024 its privacy policy after his previous tweets.Reuters could not independently verify Alderson's claim.Prime Minister Modi has not commented on the issue.BJP said the app - which has seen about 5 million downloads on the Google Android Play Store - allows users access even in a guest mode that does not require them to grant any permissions."The permissions required are all ... cause-specific " the BJP tweeted.(Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy; Editing by Euan Rocha and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  12:44 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO/LONDON —  Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany indicated that a majority of the public were losing trust in Facebook over privacy  as the firm ran advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers apologizing to users.Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws  according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday  while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag  Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper  found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy.Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg apologized for "a breach of trust" in advertisements placed in papers including the Observer in Britain and the New York Times  Washington Post and Wall Street Journal."We have a responsibility to protect your information. If we can't  we don't deserve it " said the advertisement  which appeared in plain text on a white background with a tiny Facebook logo.AdvertisementThe world's largest social media network is coming under growing government scrutiny in Europe and the United States  and is trying to repair its reputation among users  advertisers  lawmakers and investors.AdvertisementThis follows allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.U.S. Senator Mark Warner  the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee  said in an interview on NBC’s Meet the Press" on Sunday that Facebook had not been "fully forthcoming" over how Cambridge Analytica had used Facebook data.Warner repeated calls for Zuckerberg to testify in person before U.S. lawmakers  saying Facebook and other internet companies had been reluctant to confront “the dark underbelly of social media” and how it can be manipulated."BREACH OF TRUST"Zuckerberg acknowledged that an app built by a university researcher had "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014"."This was a breach of trust  and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time " Zuckerberg said  reiterating an apology first made last week in U.S. television interviews.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week  while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online.The Reuters/Ipsos online poll found that 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information  compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon.com Inc  62 percent who trust Alphabet Inc's Google  60 percent for Microsoft Corp.The poll was conducted from Wednesday through Friday and had 2 237 responses. (https://reut.rs/2G9hvrv)AdvertisementThe German poll published by Bild was conducted by Kantar EMNID  a unit of global advertising holding company WPP  using representative polling methods  the firm said. Overall  only 33 percent found social media had a positive effect on democracy  against 60 percent who believed the opposite.It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook  eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said in an interview. Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith  she said."It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives " she said.Data supplied to Reuters by the Israeli firm SimilarWeb  which measures global online audiences  indicated that Facebook usage in major markets and worldwide remained steady over the past week."Desktop  mobile and app usage has remained steady and well within the expected range " said Gitit Greenberg  SimilarWeb's director of market insights. "It is important to separate frustration from actual tangible impacts to Facebook usage."(Additional reporting by William James in London  Dustin Volz in Washington D.C. and Chris Kahn in New Editing by Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  8:38 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  To get an idea of the data Facebook collects about you  just ask for it. You'll get a file with every photo and comment you've posted  all the ads you've clicked on  stuff you've liked and searched for and everyone you've friended — and unfriended — over the years.This trove of data is used to decide which ads to show you. It also makes using Facebook more seamless and enjoyable — say  by determining which posts to emphasize in your feed  or reminding you of friends' birthdays.Facebook claims to protect all this information  and it lays out its terms in a privacy policy that's relatively clear and concise. But few users bother to read it. You might be surprised at what Facebook's privacy policy allows — and what's left unsaid.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. While past privacy debacles have centered on what marketers gather on users  the stakes are higher this time because the firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society.AdvertisementFacebook defends its data collection and sharing activities by noting that it's adhering to a privacy policy it shares with users. Thanks largely to years of privacy scandals and pressure from users and regulators  Facebook also offers a complex set of controls that let users limit how their information is used — to a point.AdvertisementYou can turn off ad targeting and see generic ads instead  the way you would on television or in a newspaper. In the ad settings  you'd need to uncheck all your interests  interactions with companies and websites and other personal information you don't want to use in targeting. Of course  if you click on a new interest after this  you'll have to go back and uncheck it in your ad preferences to prevent targeting. It's a tedious task.As Facebook explains  it puts you in target categories based on your activity. So  if you are 35  live in Seattle and have liked an outdoor adventure page  Facebook may show you an ad for a mountain bike shop in your area.But activity isn't limited to pages or posts you like  comments you make and your use of outside apps and websites."If you start typing something and change your mind and delete it  Facebook keeps those and analyzes them too " Zeynep Tufekci  a prominent techno-sociologist  said in a 2017 TED talk .Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And  increasingly  Facebook tries to match what it knows about you with your offline data  purchased from data brokers or gathered in other ways. The more information it has  the fuller the picture of you it can offer to advertisers. It can infer things about you that you had no intention of sharing — anything from your ethnicity to personality traits  happiness and use of addictive substances  Tufekci said.These types of data collection aren't necessarily explicit in privacy policies or settings.What Facebook does say is that advertisers don't get the raw data. They just tell Facebook what kind of people they want their ads to reach  then Facebook makes the matches and shows the ads.Apps can also collect a lot of data about you  as revealed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The firm got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.Facebook says Cambridge Analytica got the data inappropriately — but only because the app said it collected data for research rather than political profiling. Gathering data on friends was permitted at the time  even if they had never installed the app or given explicit consent.AdvertisementIan Bogost  a Georgia Tech communications professor who built a tongue-in-cheek game called "Cow Clicker" in 2010  wrote in The Atlantic recently that abusing the Facebook platform for "deliberately nefarious ends" was easy to do then. What's worse  he said  it was hard to avoid extracting private data.If "you played Cow Clicker  even just once  I got enough of your personal data that  for years  I could have assembled a reasonably sophisticated profile of your interests and behavior " he wrote. "I might still be able to; all the data is still there  stored on my private server  where Cow Clicker is still running  allowing players to keep clicking where a cow once stood."Facebook has since restricted the amount of types of data apps can access. But other types of data collection are still permitted. For this reason  it's a good idea to check all the apps you've given permissions to over the years. You can also do this in your settings.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  5:23 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc  responding to reports in some technology industry media that it has been logging users' call and text history without their permission  said in a statement on Sunday that the function "has always been opt-in only."The social media site said that when the feature is enabled by the user and contact information is uploaded  the platform can then use the given data when a call or text was made or received with Facebook Lite and Facebook Messenger services.Facebook specified that it does not collect the content of calls or text messages and information is securely stored. This data is not sold to third parties  Facebook's statement said."You may have seen some recent reports that Facebook has been logging people's call and SMS (text) history without their permission. This is not the case " Facebook's statement said.AdvertisementThe Verge website reported that some Twitter users said they found months or years of call history data in their downloadable Facebook data file. Ars Technica reported Facebook requested access to contacts  SMS data and call history on Android devices to improve its friend recommendation algorithm.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Call and text history logging is part of an opt-in feature for people using Messenger. While we receive certain permissions from Android  uploading this information has always been opt-in only " the world's largest social media network said.Advertisement"People have to expressly agree to use this feature " the statement said.The leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee on Friday wrote to Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg detailing new concerns about the social media company's use of data and formally requesting that he testify at a hearing.Facebook is under pressure from governments  investors and advertisers following allegations by a whistleblower that British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed users' information to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.(Reporting by Shalini Nagarajan in Bengaluru; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  11:20 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO —  Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws  according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday  illustrating the challenge facing the social media network after a scandal over its handling of personal information.The poll  taken Wednesday through Friday  also found that fewer Americans trust Facebook than other tech companies that gather user data  such as Apple Inc  Alphabet Inc's Google  Amazon.com Inc  Microsoft Corp and Yahoo.Some 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information  compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon  62 percent who trust Google  60 percent for Microsoft and 47 percent for Yahoo.The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States. It gathered responses from 2 237 people and has a credibility interval  a measure of accuracy  of 2 percentage points. (Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2pA8DoG)AdvertisementFacebook  the world's largest social media firm  has been offering apologies as it tries to repair its reputation among users  advertisers  lawmakers and investors for mistakes that let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. (Graphic: Poll data - https://tmsnrt.rs/2pFHBfN)AdvertisementFacebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week  while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online and the company's chief executive officer  Mark Zuckerberg  faced demands that he appear before U.S. lawmakers to testify in a hearing.Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said last week that shoring up trust was their priority. "We know this is an issue of trust. We know this is a critical moment for our company " Sandberg told CNBC on Thursday.It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook  eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said. Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith  she said."It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives " she said.One reason that Facebook and other internet companies collect personal information from users is to deliver advertisements for products and services to people who are most likely to want them.Facebook  with more than 2 billion monthly active users  made almost all its $40.6 billion in revenue last year from advertising.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The poll found that many people take a dim view of those "targeted" advertisements.Some 63 percent said they would like to see "less targeted advertising" in the future  while 9 percent said they wanted more. When asked to compare them with traditional forms of advertising  41 percent said targeted ads are "worse" while 21 percent said they are "better.""I think they make a lot of assumptions that are not true " poll respondent Maria Curran  56  who lives near Manchester  New Hampshire  said in a follow-up interview.Advertisement"It's like if I show an interest in healthy eating  all of a sudden all of the ads are about weight control and exercise and how to lose weight. I just get inundated " she said.Curran said she knows online retailer Amazon.com also collects her information for targeted marketing  but that it is less annoying because it is a shopping site  not a place for personal conversations.Another poll respondent  Kamaal Greene  26  said he likes targeted ads better than traditional ones because they provide a service  steering him to products he wants."A while ago I was looking for a special kind of glove for my job " said Greene  a firefighter from Detroit."I put it in my Amazon cart and forgot about it. Then  later  the ad popped up on ... Facebook  and I was like 'oh shoot.' It reminded me and I clicked on it and bought it."A plurality of adults said they would like the government to take a bigger role in overseeing the industry's handling of user information. According to the poll  46 percent of adults said they want more government regulation  while 17 percent said they want less. Another 20 percent said they wanted no change  and the remaining 18 percent said they did not know.(Reporting by Chris Kahn in New York and David Ingram in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  12:41 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  The quartet of technology stocks that has driven Wall Street indices to record highs in recent years may be breaking up  possibly undermining one of the best growth stories in a nine-year bull market.Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet tumbled this week as the benchmark S&P 500 index fell back toward lows seen in February  when the index gave back more than 10 percent in 10 days after reaching a record high in January.Netflix and Amazon.com  which along with Facebook and Alphabet make up the so-called "FANG" stocks  did not do as badly as the S&P 500 index this week  falling 4.0 percent  compared to the index's 6.0 per cent fall.But growing concerns about potential government regulation in the U.S. and Europe in response to privacy issues have investors assessing whether they may be forced to choose between those technology stocks leading the new economy.Advertisement"The big  consumer-facing tech companies have been stock market leaders for years  and this could be the beginning of the end of that leadership. However  the long-term tech growth story is far from over " Guild Investment Management Executive Vice President Tim Shirata wrote in a note this week.AdvertisementThe outcry over Facebook's handling of users' data this week has bled $75 billion from the social media company's stock market value  with concerns about potential regulation of internet companies also hurting Alphabet.Facebook fell 13 percent for the week and is down nearly 20 percent from its record high  while Alphabet lost nearly 10 percent this week and is 14 percent off its record high.Amazon lost nearly 10 percent also for the week but is only 8 percent off its record  while Netflix lost 5.4 percent and is nearly 10 percent from its high.Apple  which became a stock portfolio cornerstone following the iPhone's debut in 2007  is also about 10 percent off its record high.Amazon this week overtook Alphabet as the world's second largest company by market capitalization at around $747 billion compared to $730 billion for Alphabet  but is still behind the largest company Apple worth $860 billion  according to Reuters data."The FANG complex needs to go away " said Joel Kulina  senior vice president of institutional cash equities at Wedbush. "You can't compare Facebook and Google to Amazon anymore because they're going in different directions and disrupting different parts of the world."Illustrative of the consumer and political backlash against Facebook  the world's largest social media network  the verified Facebook page of rocket company SpaceX disappeared on Friday  minutes after its founder and Silicon Valley billionaire Elon Musk promised on Twitter to take down the page when challenged by a user.AdvertisementSince February 2013  when CNBC television host Jim Cramer popularized the term FANG to describe the four must-own stocks  each has provided massive rewards to investors  with Facebook and Amazon gaining over 400 percent  Netflix climbing over 1 000 percent  and Alphabet nearly tripling its stock price.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.STILL MOSTLY BULLISHCriticism about the misuse of Facebook and Alphabet's platforms during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign has worried investors for several months.European governments are already taking action to deal with risks to the privacy of user data  as well to limit what is seen as unfair competition in a move reminiscent of regulatory action against Microsoft nearly 20 years ago.Regulatory risk became a bigger issue this week after the revelation that Facebook mistakenly let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Longer term though investors remain mostly bulllish on all four stocks and this week's privacy scandal has not led analysts to meaningfully change their expectations for Facebook or Alphabet's stocks.Investors disagree about which FANG stocks will lead in the future.Gullane Capital Partners  a hedge fund in Memphis  Tennessee  owns Amazon and Alphabet  and has occasionally shorted Netflix in recent years  betting the streaming company's meteoric rise would be followed by a steep pullback."I want to own Amazon for the next 25 years. It's the most powerful business since Wal-Mart or Microsoft in their heydays " said Gullane Capital Managing Partner Trip Miller.Miller attributed recent selling in Facebook  which his fund does not own  more to profit-taking than to a seismic change in how the company is viewed on Wall Street.The growing divergence in views on the four Wall Street powerhouses comes as investors more broadly reduce their appetite for the technology stocks which have led Wall Street's rally in recent years.AdvertisementThe Philadelphia Semiconductor Index on Friday slumped 3.3 percent  hammered by fears of a trade war with China after President Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.In the latest week ended Wednesday March 21  U.S.-based technology sector funds attracted just $158 million of net new cash  down sharply from inflows of $1.95 billion the previous week  according to Lipper data on Thursday.Guild Investment Management's Shirata recommends buying technology stocks less likely to catch the eye of government regulators  and he pointed to networking  videogames and cloud computing companies."In all these areas  prospects for long-term growth still look stunningly good." he wrote.(Reporting by Noel Randewich; Editing by Alden Bentley)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement
Ask a Showrunner By                     
 JEREMY EGNER
 
MARCH 25  2018
“Silicon Valley” returns to HBO Sunday after a particularly terrible week for Silicon Valley  as Facebook dealt with fallout from revelations about the Cambridge Analytica data breach and Uber notched a horrific milestone: The first pedestrian killed by a driverless car.“The tech world of four or five years ago is definitely different than now ” said Mike Judge  the creator of the show. The public conception of Silicon Valley as a place of whiz kids in hoodies “boldly claiming all the time that they were making the world a better place” has been replaced with something darker  he said.For its fifth season  TV’s “Silicon Valley” has undergone changes of its own  albeit of the less tragic variety. The largely luckless Pied Piper crew finally finds itself in charge  as well as a man down. T. J. Miller  the excitable comic who played the feckless blowhard Erlich Bachman  last seen in a Tibetan opium den in Season 4  left the show  bashing colleagues in interviews on the way out. (In December  after Mr. Miller had quit the series  he was the subject of sexual assault allegations involving a former college classmate; he has denied the allegations.)Mr. Judge was previously best known for creating the long-running “King of the Hill” as well as diverse cult favorites that have had equally lengthy afterlives  like “Beavis and Butt-Head ” “Office Space” and “Idiocracy.” The new direction of “Silicon Valley ” along with the changes and struggles in the tech world  has him reassessing his original plan to end the show after six seasons. “It’s taken on a second wind ” he said.Advertisement“How many seasons did ‘Dallas’ go?” he added. “I think it could go that long.” (For the record: 14.)In a phone conversation  Mr. Judge discussed the new season  Mr. Miller’s departure  possible reboots of “King of the Hill” and “Idiocracy” and which of his creations are his favorites. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.For the first time  the Pied Piper crew is running things. Did that change how you approached the story?AdvertisementIt felt pretty natural. In a way  some of this to me is analogous to stuff that happens in Hollywood. I started out making animated shorts in my house by myself. Then when “Beavis and Butt-Head” happened  I had people fighting over it — there was the stress of  am I getting screwed here? And eventually I had about as many people working for me on “Beavis and Butt-Head” as Richard [Thomas Middleditch] does in Season 5  and that became just as stressful. I’m not someone who enjoys telling people to do something they don’t want to do  and Richard is the same way. So there’s plenty of comedy that can come from stuff like that.How did T. J. Miller’s departure affect the show?Had he left after Season 1 or 2  it would have been really rough to try to make it work. But now it’s actually kind of perfect timing because we were having trouble keeping him in the story. Not because of him  just because his character is not a programmer. He’s just the guy who owned the house. We had done a bunch of comedy about that  about how he’s kind of marginal and trying to make himself relevant. We have a lot of really great characters and actors  and I try to service them all. So it actually freed us up in the writing. [Mr. Judge declined to comment on reports that Mr. Miller had been a disruptive presence on the set.]What did you make of his bomb-throwing exit? [Laughs.] It seemed very much like T. J. — I’m sure he wouldn’t have it any other way. He’s a brilliantly funny guy. I’ve seen these quotes — he’s always been a good put-down artist. But yeah  I don’t know what to really make of it  and it’s not any of my business anymore  you know?Jian-Yang [Jimmy O. Yang] has been the new [expletive] of the house for a while  and he becomes a bigger one  like on a grander scale. And there are a lot of other characters picking up the slack. Laurie [Suzanne Cryer]  there’s more of her and Monica [Amanda Crew]. There’s definitely a lot more Jared [Zach Woods]. And we’ve got a really great robot coming up.The show started off making fun of the goofy grandiosity of the tech industry  but the current perception of Silicon Valley is more critical. Has the show changed as a result?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Because we write it several months ahead of when it airs  we were already kind of noticing  just because we talk to a lot of people [in the industry] and a lot of them are just starting to realize the lack of conscience. And if they’re not realizing that  people are pointing it out to them. I noticed when I worked in the tech world that there’s just this belief that every gain they make is for the good of mankind  and never really questioning it. I’m not saying they’re all horrible people  but they look at the task at hand and don’t really consider whether it’s right or wrong.Or whether people want their data to be sold to political operatives.Yeah  and actually we deal with that this season  with what Richard’s building. It’s like that quote: If you’re getting the service for free  then you’re the product. Those servers and all the infrastructure and engineers cost money. So  you’re paying by them looking for keywords in your email and popping ads up.Which is familiar to anyone who’s had a sneaker ad follow them around online.Yeah a friend of mine told me through text message what hotel he was going to be staying at in Nashville  and the next thing I know  there’s an ad for it on my Facebook page. It’s all tied together.Fox has said it wants to bring back “King of the Hill.” Would you be involved in that?Yeah  if they did. There have been a couple discussions about it  and about how we would do it  but nothing concrete yet. I think you’d have to have Bobby and all of them be older. The Simpsons are such iconic characters; Bart could be that age forever because it’s a more surreal show. But with “King of the Hill” being on 13 years  I think people were really starting to wonder why Bobby’s still the same age.AdvertisementAnother old film of yours  “Idiocracy ” from 2006  has become a common reference point for  well  many things happening right now. Do people mention this to you?On Twitter  like all day long. There was at one point talk about possibly a series  an animated series  a reboot like that. There were talks of musicals. I would like to have another stab at it one way or another. It was almost like a bigger concept than it was a movie — it was difficult to make and probably should have been a TV show. But yeah  I get it all the time  which is nice. But I don’t really know what to make of it  or how much of it relates to the movie when people throw around the word “idiocracy” on Twitter.Well when the C.E.O. of Carl’s Jr. gets nominated for a cabinet position —That’s what was really weird for me  specific things like that. There’s Carl’s Jr. [The company had a notably unflattering presence in the film.] There was the W.W.E. thing. [The president in the movie was a former professional wrestler; in real life  President Trump appeared in a World Wrestling Entertainment match in 2007.]Even when we were shooting the movie  the wardrobe designer showed me these shoes — they weren’t out in the world yet. And she said  “This is a start-up  they’re making these shoes and they’re going to look completely ridiculous.” Plastic shoes with holes in them. And I said to her  “The only thing I’m worried about is  what if these things blow up and by the time the movie comes out  they’re everywhere?” And she said  “Oh  that’s never going to happen. No one is going to buy these things.” And then  the movie comes out  and they are all wearing Crocs  and those shoes were just becoming huge. So  I think that was a sign that maybe a lot of these dumb things are going to come to pass.It was the Croc in the coal mine.[Laughs.] Oh man.You have a remarkable track record of creating things that seem to stick with people  whether it’s “Idiocracy” or “Office Space” or characters like Hank and Bobby Hill. Do you have a personal favorite?That’s a hard one to pick. I’m probably a little partial to Beavis. Beavis and Butt-Head  but mostly Beavis. I’d say Lumbergh [from “Office Space”] is another one. I’d say those two probably come to mind the most because … well  I don’t know.Well for Lumbergh — I’m old enough to remember when an office job sounded great. I worked at Jack in the Box and worked construction  those kinds of jobs  and I remember thinking  “Oh my God  you can work in an office? That would be wonderful.” And then the first time I did it  I had that type of boss — that passive-aggressive boss. I would rather have a guy yelling at me on a construction site. I had done an animated version but the way Gary Cole played that character  I thought that was something really great that hadn’t been done yet. So  I don’t know. I’m pretty proud of that one.An earlier version of this article included a quotation from Mike Judge that misstated Google’s Gmail ad policy. Google stopped scanning its consumer  or free  email accounts for the purpose of targeted ads in 2017.A version of this interview appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: TV’s ‘Silicon Valley’  Is Changing  Too.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy TIFFANY HSU and CECILIA KANGMARCH 26  2018
A parade of regulators  politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday  as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread.Early in the day  the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users.Soon after  Senator Charles E. Grassley  Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee  invited Mark Zuckerberg  Facebook’s chief executive  to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive  Sundar Pichai  and Twitter’s chief executive  Jack Dorsey.And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards.AdvertisementBut one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week.AdvertisementThe federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica  which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign  gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users.The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy.The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement  which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps  carries a penalty of up to $40 000 a day.The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency.The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.”Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week  the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify.“I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica  and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there ” Senator John Kennedy  Republican from Louisiana  said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.”AdvertisementSome lawmakers  such as Senator Richard Blumenthal  Democrat from Connecticut  asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users.“The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree ” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism  too. On Monday  Common Cause  a government watchdog group in Washington  filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law.In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users  The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections  despite a warning from its own election lawyer.The employees worked on polling  message development  and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals.The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account  suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns.Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department  which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission  which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules.“It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway ” said Paul S. Ryan  Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco  lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform.AdvertisementThe second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button  including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology  could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook  according to the lawsuit.Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information.In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal  in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights  many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.”Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign  as it has been called  has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp  one of Facebook’s most popular services  who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk  the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla  removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday.While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States  pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years.The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. And Europe has approved a new privacy law  which takes effect in May  that will give users of Facebook  Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them.Follow Tiffany Hsu and Cecilia Kang on Twitter: @tiffkhsu  @ceciliakangNicholas Confessore and Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Regulators Hammer Facebook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 26  2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Best day for stocks in nearly three years.• A reality check on the White House’s tariff tactics.• Tim Cook and other C.E.O.s took shots at Facebook.• Eddie Lampert finally speaks about Sears.• Washington and Beijing hold trade talks.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Stocks on Wall Street surged on signs of easing trade tensions.The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 669 points  or 2.8 percent  the S.&P. 500 surged 2.7 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 3.3 percent.AdvertisementIt was the largest one-day point gain for the Dow since October 2008  according to The WSJ  and the biggest one-day percentage gain for S.&P. 500 and Dow since August 2015.AdvertisementWorries that the Trump administration’s protectionist policies could ignite a trade war between the world’s two largest economies punished equities last week. American stocks endured their worst week in two years as the Dow lost 1 400 points  or 5.7 percent.Tensions seemed to relax over the weekend. The WSJ reported late Sunday that “China and the U.S. have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.” Also  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview that he’s “cautiously hopeful” that China will reach a deal to avoid tariffs.Shares jumped at the open and the momentum gained through the day as last week’s hardest hit sectors led the way.• The S.&P. 500 technology sector rose 4 percent. Microsoft and Apple gained 7.6 percent and 4.8 percent  respectively.• The KBW Bank Index climbed 3 percent on Monday  after tumbling 8 percent last week. Bank of America finished up 4.4 percent  while Morgan Stanley gained 4.3 percent. The two stocks had fallen nearly 5 percent on Friday.• Even Facebook  which was down 6.5 percent earlier in the day from the continued fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal  was able to eek out gains. The stock finished up 0.4 percent higher.• Gun stocks were the exception. Shares of publicly traded firearms companies fell in the wake Remington Outdoor bankruptcy filing and this weekend rallies for gun control. American Outdoor Brands fell 2.3 percent  Vista Outdoor dropped 3.8 percent and Sturm  Ruger & Co. slipped less than 1 percent.Investors last week looked at President Trump’s tariffs against Chinese products and seemed to conclude that he was taking the U.S. into a trade war with China. The stock market plunged 6 percent.AdvertisementPerhaps eager to stop the rout  the White House on Monday had a less confrontational message: Mr. Trump is applying one of his negotiating tactics. According to this view  the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about wanting to make trade with China fairer.From a CNBC interview with Kevin Hassett  the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers:“From the beginning  all the way back to last summer when I arrived at the White House  the president has been clear that he wants to set a marker down with some big asks at the beginning  he doesn’t want to dribble them out  and then he wants his negotiators to try to fix the trade problems. ...Hopefully  it all works out with negotiation.”Mr. Hassett’s comments were in response to a WSJ article reporting that China and the U.S. were quietly engaged in trade negotiations.Investors seemed somewhat relieved: The stock market was up 1.5 percent on Monday. Of course  if the stakes are small enough  a deal may get done in the coming months that allows both sides to claim victory. But it seems unlikely that China would quickly agree to a far-reaching overhaul of the rules that govern foreign investment in the country  a major area of dispute. Our colleagues Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur showed the depth of the divide there.Mr. Trump could up the ante if China shows no real signs that it will open up considerably. That could roil the markets again. The White House may want to signal that it can take market turmoil in stride. Mr. Hassett on Monday seemed to say that the White House expects market sell-offs as it pursues its trade agenda.“If you start from a world where a bunch your intellectual technology is being stolen  then of course it’s going to increase risk premiums in the short run when you try to do something about it  but in the end it should be a positive for us if we can get them to just stop them disregarding the rules of international order.”(Rising risk premiums means investors require a better return on their stocks and bonds to cover higher risks. This usually involves a decline in price to make their returns look better to prospective buyers.)Still  the more conciliatory tone from the White House after the sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full-on trade war.— Peter EavisThe stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice.AdvertisementAlso on Monday  Senator Chuck Grassley  Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee  invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive  Sundar Pichai  and Twitter’s chief executive  Jack Dorsey.Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago.To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days  Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value.Despite the fall  Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock  compare to just two who have sell ratings  according to Bloomberg.The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations  after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica:“I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary. The ability of anyone to know what you’ve been browsing about for years  who your contacts are  who their contacts are  things you like and dislike and every intimate detail of your life — from my own point of view  it shouldn’t exist.”Apple often uses privacy as a selling point  but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages  saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook  highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.)Meanwhile  Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg.Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew.Andrew’s takeMr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread  given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law  but ultimately complied.AdvertisementAs for Facebook’s ad  take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations.The activist investor’s fund  Third Point  has built a position in United Technologies  according to an antitrust filing.He is the second activist investor to reveal a stake in the United Technologies during the past 30 days. On Feb. 28  Bill Ackman told CNBC that his Pershing Square had a position in the defense contractor.Context At a conference late last month  Greg Hayes  the chief executive of United Technologies  said the company was thinking of splitting up:“Is [United Technologies] a more valuable property together or is UTC better off in three separate businesses? That’s the question for the board. That’s the question we continue to study.”Shares of United Technologies are up nearly 3 percent on Monday.Gebr Knauf disclosed in a filing on Monday that it had offered to buy USG for $42 a share  or about $6 billion. That marked a 25 percent premium to USG closing price on Friday.In rejecting the offer  USG said the proposal substantially undervalued the building products maker.Knauf owns 10.5 percent of USG  making Knauf the second-largest shareholder in USG behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway with a 31 percent stake.Berkshire had proposed an option for Knauf to buy Berkshire’s stake in USG  according to the filing. The option would be exercisable only if Knauf bought all of USG’s shares outstanding for at least $42. Berkshire proposed an option purchase price of $2 per share.From Reuters:The option provides a sweetener for Buffett to shed a profitable investment that originated in late 2008  at the height of the housing crisis  when Berkshire and Canada’s Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd bought $400 million of USG’s debt.The $2 per share cost of the option would provide Berkshire about $86.8 million upfront  based on its 43.39 million share USG stake. Berkshire would keep that money even if Knauf proved unable to buy USG.Shares of USG are up 19 percent Monday.With Sears Holdings increasingly desperate in its efforts to stay afloat  the company’s C.E.O. gave his first in-depth interview in roughly 15 years to William D. Cohan of Vanity Fair. Mr. Lampert spoke about his past successes and his current travails as the head of the troubled retailer. (Mr. Cohan also spoke with Renaldo Rose  the man who spearheaded the kidnapping of Mr. Lampert in 2003.)AdvertisementThe money quote  from Mr. Lampert:“Put it this way  if I consider all the other alternatives  they’re not great for a lot of people and I just want to be responsible. If I didn’t believe that this company could be transformed still — the window is definitely shrinking — but if I didn’t believe that  I would try to take a different path. But I don’t know what that path exactly would be. It’s not a question of giving up or not giving up.”A bonus quote on Steven Mnuchin  Mr. Lampert’s college roommate and a director of Sears before becoming Treasury secretary  from Mark Cohen  the former C.E.O. of Sears Canada:“[With] all of Trump’s focus on jobs  job preservation  job creation  somebody ought to ask his secretary of the Treasury what his involvement has been for 11 years in the destruction of well over 100 000 jobs at Sears.”After a Friday that saw the markets sink amid fears of a trade war  the U.S. and China are holding high-level talks to defuse tensions  the WSJ reports. Leading them: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin  U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Liu He  Beijing’s economic czar.Among Washington’s requests  in a letter to Mr. Liu  were lower Chinese tariffs on American cars and more freedom for Wall Street firms to expand in China.Mr. Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday” that he believed the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve was to blame for recent market declines  not tariffs. He added  “We’re not afraid of a trade war  but that’s not our objective.”News of the talks have lifted markets in Asia and Europe  while S.&P. 500 futures jumped this morning. It will also undoubtedly ease the fears of C.E.O.s  economists and foreign leaders and allies who have openly fretted about the prospect of a trade war. A sample quote  from Larry Fink of BlackRock: “The world does not need a public fight in which we reduce future opportunities.”• Stormy Daniels told “60 Minutes” that she signed a nondisclosure agreement  for which she received $130 000  about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump because she was worried about her safety and that of her daughter. “Leave Trump alone ” a stranger told her in 2011. Read the NYT profile of her from this weekend.•  President Trump decided not to add Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing to his legal defense team in the special counsel’s investigation. That team now largely consists of one lawyer  Jay Sekulow.• The spotlight has fallen on Elliott Broidy  a top Republican fund-raiser who promised White House access to his investment and defense contractor clients. (NYT)• How Jared Kushner is quietly trying to mend U.S.-Mexico relations. (NYT)• What to expect from John Bolton  the new national security adviser. (Axios)On a weekend in which millions turned out for student-led rallies for gun control  Remington Outdoor officially sought Chapter 11 protection in Delaware. The biggest problems for the firearms maker: too much debt after being sold to Cerberus Capital Management  and a drop in gun sales after Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election in 2016.AdvertisementOn guns and politics: Brad Karp and Christopher Boehning of the law firm Paul Weiss argue that firearms manufacturers should lose legal immunity to lawsuits tied to gun deaths. Saturday’s marches could make gun control a potent issue in the midterm elections. And the U.S.’s broad support for gun control has many nuances.The media mogul spoke to Maureen Dowd of the NYT about: President Trump (not a fan); the current state of the media business (bullish on Netflix  bearish on Hollywood); and cloning his late dog  Shannon (he did it). Here’s what he had to say about workplace misconduct:“We recently had a formal complaint made by a woman who said that she was at a convention with her colleagues and she was asked to have a drink with her boss. Period. That was the complaint. And we said  ‘Here’s the thing. Anybody can ask you anything  other than let’s presume something illegal  and you have the right to say “Yes” or “No.” If it’s “Yes ” go in good health and if it’s “No ” then it’s full stop.’“But the end result of that is a guy  let’s presume he is heterosexual  and his boss  heterosexual  and guy asks guy for a drink and they go have a drink and they talk about career opportunities. And the boss says  ‘Oh  this is a smart guy. I’m promoting him.’ A woman now cannot be in that position. So all these things are a-changin’.”But he also added  “Other than psychopaths  I think all of this bad behavior is finished.”The ride-hailing giant finally sealed a deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to the (SoftBank-backed) Grab in exchange for a stake in its competitor. Like the sale of its Chinese and Russian businesses  this gets Uber out of a costly fight as it readies for an I.P.O. next year. But does this mean that Uber is also set to leave other competitive markets  like India?On self-driving cars: Even before a pedestrian was killed in Tempe  Ariz.  Uber was struggling with its autonomous vehicle efforts  needing human intervention nearly every 13 miles on average in Arizona tests. Those technical issues made being an operator of Uber’s cars very stressful.Elsewhere in tech: Amazon is collecting local taxes  but several cities aren’t seeing a dime. And why haven’t smart kitchen devices taken off?• SoftBank’s board is investigating who was behind a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of two of its executives  unnamed sources said. It is also considering a $1 billion investment in a Chinese truck-hailing company  according to unnamed sources.• After naming Yi Gang the governor of China’s central bank  Beijing has put another reformer  Guo Shuqing  above him as the bank’s Communist Party secretary. (NYT)• John C. Williams  the president of the San Francisco Fed  is a top candidate to succeed Bill Dudley at the New York Fed. (NYT)Advertisement• Duke Tran  who was once a Khmer Rouge slave  has been fighting Wells Fargo for more than four years  saying he was fired for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. (NYT)• G.E. sold off much of its lending unit  but investors are worried about what’s left of G.E. Capital. (WSJ)• Sergio Ermotti said UBS would be looking at small acquisitions to help it grow. (Bloomberg)• Britain’s JD Sports Fashion has agreed to buy Finish Line  the U.S. sportswear retailer that operates concessions in Macy’s  for $558 million. (Bloomberg)• Some of the most aggressive and successful labor actions in recent years have erupted when professionals felt their judgment  expertise and autonomy were under assault. (NYT)• When the elderly call for help in the U.S.  it’s often a “chain” immigrant who answers. (NYT)• Apple is going to Hollywood  but will it find a happy ending? (NYT)• Ad agencies have long used classical music  but these days it’s more than a jokey device or a signifier of sophistication. (NYT)• New Japan Pro-Wrestling  backed by Mark Cuban  is out to loosen W.W.E.’s grip on the industry. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  5:10 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - The European Commission pressed Facebook on Monday over whether EU citizens' data were among those improperly harvested by a British political consultancy  after the U.S. regulator said it was investigating the firm's privacy practices.That piled yet more pressure on a firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days.Facebook shares fell more than 5 percent on Monday after the U.S. consumer protection regulator made public its investigation of how the social network allowed data of 50 million users to get into the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Facebook executives have apologized after reports emerged that Cambridge Analytica had used personal data to target U.S. voters.Advertisement"Have any data of EU citizens been affected by the recent scandal?" EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova wrote in a letter to Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg  seen by Reuters. "If this is the case  how do you intend to inform the authorities and users about it?"AdvertisementJourova said that statements by Facebook executives had not alleviated her concerns."This is particularly disappointing given our efforts to build a relationship based on trust with you and your colleagues ... this trust is now diminished."A Facebook spokeswoman said the company remained strongly committed to protecting people's information and appreciated "the opportunity to explain what we know and will respond to the questions that the Commissioner has asked".Jourova asked Sandberg whether she was certain that a similar situation could "not be repeated today" and if she thought stricter rules were needed for platforms "like those that exist for traditional media".Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."As Mark Zuckerberg said this week  we are working hard to tackle past abuse  prevent future abuse and give people more prominent controls " the Facebook spokeswoman said.Germany's justice minister called for stricter rules for Facebook after meeting with company executives on Monday who said around 1 percent of 300 000 users of a personality quiz whose results were later fed into Cambridge Analytica's voter-targeting algorithms were in Europe.Jourova said she wanted a reply to her letter within two weeks.The Cambridge Analytica scandal emerged only a few months before a landmark EU data protection law comes into force under which companies found to be in breach could be fined up to 4 percent of global turnover.Any eventual sanctions for Facebook will fall under the current privacy regulations  and so would be much lower.Britain's data watchdog is taking the lead in investigating Facebook and Cambridge Analytica from the European side  and Jourova said she expected the social network to cooperate fully with European data protection authorities.(Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Andrew Roche and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  3:23 P.M. E.D.T.
Authorities in the U.S. and Europe are bearing down on Facebook and political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users and used it to manipulate elections.There have been numerous demands for investigations and calls for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify. Zuckerberg has said he's willing to testify before Congress to answer questions about the privacy scandal. But he suggested other executives might be better qualified to field questions from lawmakers.___IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:— PARLIAMENT COMMITTEE: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman  Damian Collins  said his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He said Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." In a letter to Zuckerberg  Collins wrote  "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process."— INFORMATION COMMISSIONER: Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. Although Cambridge Analytica said it is committed to helping the U.K. investigation  Denham's office said the firm failed to meet a deadline to produce the information requested. Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way.Advertisement___IN GERMANY:— Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook  following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___IN THE UNITED STATES:— SENATE: The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Sen. Charles Grassley  an Iowa Republican  says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected  retained and distributed for commercial use. Senate Democrats have also been seeking information or Zuckerberg's testimony  while Republicans on the Commerce Committee also sent letters requesting information from Facebook and Cambridge parent SCL Group.Advertisement— HOUSE: Chris Wylie  a former Cambridge Analytica employee who became a whistleblower  has agreed to be interviewed by Democrats on the U.S. House Intelligence Committee. A date has not been set  and it's unclear if Republicans on the panel will attend.— FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The agency confirms it will investigation following news reports last week. Tom Pahl  acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection  said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances  though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.— INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  4:44 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A group of whistleblowers on Monday questioned the integrity of Britain's vote to leave the European Union  presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules on the way to winning the 2016 referendum.They allege that the official Vote Leave campaign circumvented spending limits by donating 625 000 pounds ($888 000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave but sending the money directly to campaign consultant AggregateIQ. The firm has long-term links to Cambridge Analytica  the British consultant accused of misusing Facebook data to help Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election  the group says."This not about re-fighting the referendum " Chris Wylie  the central figure in the original Cambridge Analytica revelations  told reporters at a packed news conference in London. "It's about the integrity of the democratic process."The allegations have been presented to Britain's Electoral Commission and come just days after a prominent Labour Party politician called for a second Brexit referendum once the true costs of leaving the bloc become clear. Britain voted to leave the EU in a June 2016 referendum  with 52 percent of voters supporting Brexit.AdvertisementThey were first published last weekend as part of a wide-ranging investigation of Cambridge Analytica by Britain's Observer newspaper  together with Channel Four and The New York Times. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said Monday that it is investigating Facebook's privacy practices as a result of concerns raised by earlier stories in the series.AdvertisementCampaign finance rules limited Vote Leave's spending on the Brexit referendum to 7 million pounds. When Vote Leave got close to that limit during the final weeks of the campaign  it made the donation to BeLeave  said Shahmir Sanni  a volunteer who helped run the grassroots student group."I know that Vote Leave cheated " Sanni told Britain's Channel 4 news. "I know that people have been lied to and that the referendum wasn't legitimate."Attorney Tamsin Allen laid out the evidence supporting the claims during a news conference in London  presenting journalists with printouts of electronic message exchanges  photos and a legal opinion presented to Britain's Electoral Commission.The message exchanges show Vote Leave officials overseeing the content of material distributed by BeLeave volunteers  and offering suggestions on how BeLeave workers should respond to questions from the Electoral Commission. One email from a commission investigator discusses how BeLeave should report the Vote Leave donation since it never actually received the money.The whistleblowers also have evidence that AggregateIQ was sending targeted ads on behalf of BeLeave at a time when it was working closely with Vote Leave  Allen said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."A number of witnesses  including Shahmir Sanni  one of the Vote Leave volunteers  have now come forward with their accounts and produced emails  invoices  photographs and evidence from the internal systems of Vote Leave and BeLeave " she said.Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson  a leading figure in the Leave campaign  dismissed the campaign finance allegations as "ludicrous."Environment Secretary Michael Gove  who was co-chair of the Vote Leave campaign  insisted the referendum result must be respected.Advertisement"I respect the motives and understand the feelings of those who voted to remain in the EU " he said. "But 17.4 million opted to leave in a free and fair vote and the result must be respected. It's our job now to work to overcome division."AggregateIQ  based in Victoria  British Columbia  said it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica and has never signed a contract with the company. But Wylie told the Observer that he was instrumental in the foundation of AggregateIQ  when he was the research director of SCL  the parent company of Cambridge Anayltica. He said they shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a department.But the company said it was 100-percent Canadian owned and operated and was never part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL."AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates " the company said in a statement. "It has never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity. All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client.'"Britain's Electoral Commission says it doesn't comment on active investigations  but it has acknowledged a number of open inquiries related to the EU referendum.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  12:16 P.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  Companies like Facebook must face stricter regulation and tougher penalties meted out by better equipped data-protection authorities  Germany's justice minister said on Monday after a meeting with senior executives from the company.Katarina Barley summoned the bosses  including European public affairs chief Richard Allan  after allegations surfaced that data from millions of its users was improperly used by consultants Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections."Facebook admitted abuses and excesses in the past and gave assurances that measures since taken mean they can't happen again " she said. "But promises aren't enough. In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly."(Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Joseph Nasr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  3:52 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users' data was used to target political ads (all times local):3:30 p.m.Cook County is suing Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users.The lawsuit filed Friday in Cook County Circuit Court alleges Trump-affiliated political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica deceived the millions of Illinois Facebook users whose information it collected. It says Facebook failed to protect its users' privacy and misrepresented how their data would be used.London-based Cambridge Analytica has been accused of using Facebook data to influence voter behavior in U.S. elections.The Chicago Tribune reports the lawsuit filed by Cook County State's Attorney Kimberly Foxx on behalf of Illinois residents brings one consumer fraud count each against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. It seeks $50 000 fines for each violation of the law.AdvertisementNeither company has commented on the lawsuit.___2:20 p.m.The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy.AdvertisementSen. Charles Grassley of Iowa says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected  retained and distributed for commercial use. He says the hearing also will examine what steps companies like Facebook can do to better protect personal information.Grassley's committee is the third congressional panel to seek Zuckerberg's testimony in the wake of a privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-connected data-mining company.Several Judiciary Committee members had pressed Grassley to hold the hearing.Grassley says he's also invited Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.___12:15 p.m.The chief law enforcement officers for 37 U.S. states and territories are demanding to know when Facebook learned of a huge breach of privacy protections.The officers say in a letter Monday to CEO Mark Zuckerberg that users' trust in the social media platform is "broken."The attorneys general are asking how Facebook monitored what these developers did with all the data they collected and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to more easily control the privacy of their accounts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cambridge Analytica  a political data-mining firm  is accused of lifting data from some 50 million Facebook users to influence voters in U.S. elections.Advertisement___11:55 a.m.Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook  following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data.Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.She added that "promises aren't enough  though. We will need to monitor companies such as Facebook much more strictly in future and also punish breaches of data protection strongly  swiftly and painfully."Barley said Facebook reacted "favorably" to her demand for greater transparency about the algorithms that underpin the company's data collection.She said campaigns such as "Delete Facebook" would likely make a strong impression on the company because "in the end the currency that Facebook works with is trust."___10:50 a.m.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers.Facebook's stock  which already took a big hit last week  plunged as a result.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.News outlets have reported on the FTC investigation last week  but the FTC hadn't confirmed it until Monday. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances.___5 a.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the personal information of millions of the company's subscribers. The fact is  European regulators are already forcing him to do so.AdvertisementA similar data breach in the future could make Facebook liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion under the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation  which will be enforced from May 25. The rules  approved two years ago  also make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data and apply to any company that uses the data of EU residents  no matter where it is based.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:02 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Monday it would expand its local news push beyond the United States to provide users with more stories from local sources covering their current cities and other cities of interest.In January  Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg had announced the changes that first rolled out in the United States and would expand to a global audience.The changes come amid allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to Facebook users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.Facebook also faces criticism that its algorithms may have prioritized misleading news in people's feeds.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  7:55 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A whistleblower at the heart of a Facebook data scandal on Monday questioned the result of Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum as his lawyers presented evidence that they said showed the main campaign for leaving the EU had broken the law.With just a year until Britain is due to leave the European Union  two whistleblowers - one from the British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and one from the Vote Leave group - have alleged that Brexit campaigners funded their campaign illegally.By doing so  they have pulled Brexit into a scandal that has forced Mark Zuckerberg to apologise for how Facebook handled users' data  and raised questions about how Donald Trump's 2016 campaign employed data.Vote Leave officials on Monday denied breaking election rules and said they were facing an attempt to undermine Brexit by smearing their reputations.AdvertisementThe whistleblowers' law firm  London-based Bindmans  released 53 pages of selected evidence on Monday.AdvertisementIn a legal opinion  Bindmans said there was a prima facie case that Vote Leave broke election spending limits by donating to an allied group known as BeLeave  with which it was working closely."Can we be confident in the result of the referendum?" said whistleblower Christopher Wylie  formerly of Cambridge Analytica. "This is not refighting the referendum. This is about the integrity of the democratic process."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."If this country is on the path of an irreversible decision  we really should be confident that the basis of that decision came from a free and fair vote - and what this evidence does is it calls into question whether it was free and fair."Reuters was unable to verify the allegations made against Vote Leave. Matthew Elliott  its former CEO  said the allegations were wrong."Vote Leave did not break the law " Elliott told Reuters. "Voters can be confident this was a free and fair referendum."Elliott said the Electoral Commission had twice looked into Vote Leave's relationship with BeLeave and had given it a clean bill of health both times. He said he was confident that the third investigation would produce the same result."The basis of all this is an attempt by people on the 'Remain' campaign to call into doubt the result of the EU referendum " Elliott said.(Reporting by Alistair Smout  writing by Guy Faulconbridge; Editing by Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  5:17 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook as they probe whether the company's data-collection practices have hurt the people who use its services.The Federal Trade Commission confirmed news reports on Monday that it was investigating the company. Separately  the attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app  even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing.Facebook is also facing questions about reports that it collected years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and information about text messages from Android users. Facebook says the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others. But the company did not spell out exactly what it used the data for or why it needed it.AdvertisementEuropean officials also have also been investigating or seeking more information. Germany's justice minister said Monday that she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook after a meeting with its executives about the abuse of users' data. Last week  a U.K. parliamentary media committee summoned CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about how Facebook uses data  while U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating how Cambridge Analytica got the data.AdvertisementIn addition  the state's attorney of Cook County in Illinois has sued Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for consumer fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. Facebook has not commented on the lawsuit.The recent troubles follow Facebook's most difficult year yet  as the company dealt with fake news  "filter bubbles" that lead to increasing polarization  and congressional hearings over Russian agents' alleged use of social media to meddle with the 2016 presidential elections.In January  Zuckerberg set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018. Nearly three months in  it's a taller order than ever.Tom Pahl  acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection  said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances  though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Marc Rotenberg  executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center  believes Facebook was in violation of the 2011 settlement in letting Cambridge Analytica harvest data on friends of Facebook users. He called the investigation "good news.""This is what Facebook was doing 10 years ago that people objected to  what the FTC should have stopped in 2011 " Rotenberg said. "It makes zero sense that when a person downloads their apps  they have the ability to transfer the data of their friends."Although Zuckerberg talked about changes in 2014 that would have prevented this  Rotenberg said it should have been banned already under the 2011 consent decree. He said the FTC had dropped the ball in failing to enforce that.AdvertisementMeanwhile  state attorneys general asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily."Facebook has made promises about users' privacy in the past  and we need to know that users can trust Facebook " they wrote. "With the information we have now  our trust has been broken."In a statement  Facebook's vice president for state and local public policy  Will Castleberry  said the attorneys general "have raised important questions and we appreciate their interest. Our internal review of the situation continues and we look forward to responding."Facebook's stock  which already took a big hit last week  fell Monday after the FTC announcement but recovered by the end of the day. With Monday's close at $160.06  the stock is down almost 14 percent since March 16  when the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.___Selsky reported from Salem  Oregon. AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »YouTube Suspect Was Popular and Ridiculed in IranThe Caravan That Provoked TrumpBaffled by Bitcoin? How Cryptocurrency WorksThe Story Behind Japan’s Bathing MonkeysScreams of Anguish at Venezuelan Jail FireMalala Yousafzai’s Tearful Return to PakistanKim’s Secret Trip to BeijingCambridge Analytica Whistleblower Testifies in U.K.‘Dad  I Love You  I’m Suffocating’: Families Speak Out After Siberia FireWhy Leaving Facebook Doesn’t Always Mean QuittingAdvertisementBy ELLEN BARRYMARCH 27  2018
Christopher Wylie told British lawmakers that President Trump’s election made him realize the wider impact of the techniques used by the data analytics firm he helped found.LONDON — The whistle-blower Christopher Wylie held a roomful of British lawmakers rapt for three and a half hours on Tuesday  like a pink-haired  nose-ringed oracle sent from the future to explain data.In testimony to the House of Commons’ select committee on culture  Mr. Wylie  a 28-year-old Canadian  described the inner workings of SCL  a political consultancy that gave its clients access to a vast collection of personal information harvested from Facebook.In one of the longest sessions in recent memory  Mr. Wylie made a number of jaw-dropping assertions  most significantly that the company’s exploitation of personal data had swung the results of Britain’s 2016 referendum on leaving the European Union. He also suggested that his predecessor at Cambridge Analytica was murdered.But mostly  Mr. Wylie tried to explain data-mining. He looked like a cerebral skate-rat  which might in other circumstances have undermined his credibility  but in this case it seemed to help. He was polite. He resembled  as one journalist put it  “a patient grandson trying to set up a Skype call with his gran.”AdvertisementHis message was clear: If you aren’t already worried about how your personal data is being used  now would be a good time to start. “The way I like to think of it  data is the electricity of our new economy  and electricity can be quite dangerous ” he said. “We enjoy the benefits of electricity  despite the fact that it can literally kill you.”AdvertisementCambridge Analytica released a statement describing Mr. Wylie as “a part-time contractor who left in July 2014 and has no direct knowledge of our work or practices since then.” It said Cambridge Analytica  a subsidiary of the SCL political consultancy  did not use its cache of data in Donald J. Trump’s 2016 campaign  and had no involvement in the European Union referendum that ended with a victory for those who support withdrawal  or Brexit  from the bloc.Mr. Wylie’s testimony bluntly contradicted that of his former boss  Alexander Nix  who has recently appeared before the same committee twice. Mr. Wylie said a cluster of pro-Brexit organizations employed a Canadian subsidiary company  Aggregate IQ  which provided them with SCL’s store of data.“I think it is completely reasonable to say that there could have been a different outcome of the referendum had there not been  in my view  cheating ” he said.He also suggested that Russian intelligence agencies could have easily scooped up the company’s vast library of data on American voters in advance of the 2016 elections in the United States  because Aleksandr Kogan  the scientist who collected it  made regular return trips to Russia.“Put a key logger in Kogan’s computer in Russia and you’ve got everything ” Mr. Wylie said. He added: “It would make it incredibly easy for them to get access to this data. For me  that’s concerning and I think it should be looked into.”Mr. Wylie’s appearance has coincided with a surge of collective dismay over data-mining  and many found themselves riveted by his testimony on Tuesday. Georgia Rakusen  33  a user researcher at a technology firm in London  urged her Twitter followers to tune into the hearing  which she called “absolutely gripping stuff.”His testimony  she said  “was something that  as a lay person  you could watch and start to grasp the enormity of how your data is used.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I think maybe people are just beginning to open up  to realize that maybe it’s not just about ads  maybe it’s not just what bands I like ” she said. Ms. Rakusen  who described her own work as “a space where we are supposed to make people click more ” said she hoped that employees of large technology companies would come forward more  looking at whistle-blowers like Mr. Wylie and Edward J. Snowden.Advertisement“I didn’t watch the whole three and a half hours ” she said. “But I basically didn’t get any other work done during that time.”Mr. Wylie  who has described himself a “gay Canadian vegan ” dropped out of high school but discovered a genius for coding and  still in his teens  began working for political campaigns. He came close to losing his composure at only one moment on Tuesday  when he was asked what prompted him to turn against the technology he had helped create. He said his views had changed when Mr. Trump was elected.“It was no longer this niche  shady firm ” he said. “It was a firm that was making a massive impact on the world. It’s a process of coming to terms with what you have created  and the impact that has had.”“I am incredibly remorseful for my role in setting it up ” he added  his voice wavering. “I’m the first person to say that I should have known better. But what’s done is done.”He was caustic on the subject of his former boss  Mr. Nix  who he said enjoyed the colonial challenge of manipulating the affairs of less developed countries. He recalled that once  they were late to a meeting because Mr. Nix had to collect a chandelier he had bought for $283 000.“You have to remember that a lot of these people are very wealthy already ” he said. “The thing that I learned is for certain wealthy people  they need something to keep them occupied. They need projects. And for certain wealthy people  going into the developing world and running a country is something that appeals to them.”At times  he seemed slightly pitying of British officials who are investigating data-mining  saying they did not have enough resources and lacked a “robust technical background.”“I have had to explain and re-explain and re-explain and re-explain  you know  how relational databases work  what is an eigenvector  what is dimensionality reduction ” he said.“They have been working really  really hard. But as a point of observation  one of the weak points that I’ve seen — again  this is an empathetic criticism — is the lack of technical people ” he said  apparently searching for a polite way to say it. “They have had to ask me a lot of questions that a database engineer would not ask.”A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A4 of the New York edition with the headline: Data-Mining Swung Election On Brexit  Says a Witness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy CECILIA KANG and SHEERA FRENKELMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — For 10 days  Mark Zuckerberg  Facebook’s chief executive  has been under increasing pressure from lawmakers and regulators to answer questions about the improper harvesting of data of 50 million Facebook users by a British political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica.Now Mr. Zuckerberg plans to go to Washington to explain himself.The chief executive has agreed to testify in at least one congressional hearing over the social network’s handling of customer data  according to people familiar with the decision. Specifically  he plans to appear next month before the House Energy and Commerce Committee  said the people  who asked not to be identified because the arrangements were not public. Mr. Zuckerberg may make other appearances; he has also been asked to testify before the Senate and House Judiciary and Commerce Committees.His appearing on Capitol Hill could create a spectacle that is replayed online and on television for years to come  especially amid a backlash against the power of tech behemoths. Late last year  executives from Facebook  Google and Twitter showed up at congressional hearings to discuss Russian meddling online in the 2016 presidential election  putting faces to the tech platforms during criticism of their misuse.Congressional testimony by Silicon Valley chief executives is rare  and their appearances have each set off a media circus. In 2013  Apple’s chief executive  Timothy D. Cook  addressed senators about his company’s tax practices. In 2011  Google’s chairman at the time  Eric Schmidt  spoke about the company’s search practices in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee. And in 1998  Bill Gates  who was Microsoft’s chief executive  defended his company against lawmakers’ assertions that he was building a monopoly — an argument he eventually lost in court.Advertisement“The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify ” said Elena Hernandez  a spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.CNN earlier reported that Mr. Zuckerberg had decided to testify in front of Congress.He has been under pressure to appear before Congress since reports on March 17 that Cambridge Analytica improperly obtained and used the data of 50 million Facebook users. The revelations immediately sparked a furor on both sides of the Atlantic  with regulators in Britain and the United States calling for Mr. Zuckerberg to discuss what happened.AdvertisementThose calls haven’t subsided  even though the chief executive issued a public statement last week outlining the steps that Facebook was taking to prevent improper  harvesting of the data of its 2.2. billion users. On Monday  the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users. Politicians including Senator Charles E. Grassley  Republican of Iowa  have also pressed for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear on Capitol Hill.Mr. Zuckerberg has turned down some requests to go before lawmakers. He declined to appear this week before the British Parliament and answer questions about data privacy.Facebook staff have held marathon meetings and phone calls with staff from congressional committees over the past week  according to Facebook employees and others briefed on the matter. Rob Sherman  Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer  and Molly Cutler  its associate general counsel  have met with staff from the House and Senate Commerce  Judiciary and Intelligence Committees  they said.Mr. Zuckerberg initially resisted speaking to Congress  and had asked if a senior Facebook executive could be sent to represent the company in his name  two Facebook employees familiar with the conversations said.Christopher Wylie told British lawmakers that President Trump’s election made him realize the wider impact of the techniques used by the data analytics firm he helped found.After the public outcry over Facebook’s data and privacy settings  Mr. Zuckerberg was persuaded that he needed to appear  they said. In recent days  he told Facebook employees that he had come to understand he would have to testify.In an interview with CNN last week  Mr. Zuckerberg said that he would be “happy to” testify in front of Congress and that “it’s the right thing to do.” He added of Cambridge Analytica  “This was a major breach of trust  and I’m really sorry that this happened.”AdvertisementGoogle and Twitter have also been called to testify before Congress on data privacy. The companies didn’t respond to requests for comment.Lawmakers have been frustrated in the past by Mr. Zuckerberg’s absence from hearings. Last year  Facebook sent its general counsel  Colin Stretch  to join lawyers from Twitter and Google to testify about social media’s role in spreading disinformation during the 2016 election. Lawmakers noted the absence of senior executives  including Mr. Zuckerberg  and repeatedly challenged Facebook to send its leaders to answer questions.In a recent interview  Senator John Kennedy  Republican of Louisiana  said Mr. Zuckerberg needed to directly answer questions from Congress about what kind of user data was being gathered and shared  because Facebook has been too vague about its practices. He said the attorneys for Facebook  Google and Twitter who testified about the 2016 election had “dodged questions.”“They didn’t say a damn thing  which was what they were paid to do ” Mr. Kennedy said. “I’d encourage Mr. Zuckerberg to do the common-sense thing and roll up his sleeves and take a meaningful amount of time talking to us about this.”Follow Cecilia Kang and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @ceciliakang and @sheeraf.Cecilia Kang reported from Washington  and Sheera Frenkel from New York.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Zuckerberg Makes Date For Live Chat With Congress.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  8:33 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The computer expert who alleges a trove of Facebook data was improperly used to help Donald Trump's White House bid said Tuesday that he strongly believes the information was also used by the Brexit movement that persuaded Britain to quit the European Union.In a 3½-hour hearing  Chris Wylie told the House of Commons media committee that he believes the breach exceeded the 50 million Facebook users reported earlier — though he didn't give an exact figure. And he said the data compiled by the political consulting business Cambridge Analytica was available to other firms with links to it."All kinds of people had access to the data " said Wylie  who helped develop Cambridge Analytica's methods for using the information to target and persuade voters. "It was everywhere."Among the companies that had access to the data was AggregateIQ  a Canadian political consultant that did work for Vote Leave  the official campaign backing Britain's withdrawal from the EU  Wylie said.AdvertisementWylie described Cambridge Analytica as just one arm of a global company  SCL Group  that gets most of its income from military contracts but is also a political gun-for-hire  often in countries where democratic institutions are weak. He suggested the company combines computer algorithms and dirty tricks to help candidates win regardless of the cost.AdvertisementThe 28-year-old Canadian with a swath of pink hair says he helped set up Cambridge Analytica in 2013. He left the next year.Wylie has previously alleged that Cambridge Analytica used personal data improperly collected from Facebook users to help Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Cambridge Analytica says none of the Facebook data was used in its work on the Trump campaign. It denies any wrongdoing.Cambridge Analytica's acting CEO  Alexander Tayler  said in a statement that Wylie was a part-time contractor who "has no direct knowledge of our work or practices" since he left the company.Wylie said he "absolutely" believes AggregateIQ drew on Cambridge Analytica's databases for its work on the Brexit campaign. In the closely fought referendum in 2016  51.9 percent of voters backed Britain's departure from the EU.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I think it is incredibly reasonable to say that AIQ played a very significant role in Leave winning " Wylie said.He testified that AggregateIQ was formed when Cambridge Analytica sought to expand but Canadians he wanted to bring into the business didn't want to relocate to Britain. The two firms shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a "department " he said.Because of the links between the two companies  Vote Leave got the "the next best thing" to Cambridge Analytica when it hired AggregateIQ  "a company that can do virtually everything that (Cambridge Analytica) can do but with a different billing name " Wylie said.AdvertisementAggregateIQ  based in Victoria  British Columbia  issued a statement saying it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL."AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates " the company said. "All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client."Wylie's testimony came a day after Wylie and two other former insiders presented 50 pages of documents that they said proved Vote Leave violated election finance rules during the referendum campaign.They allege that Vote Leave circumvented spending limits by donating 625 000 pounds ($888 000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave  which then sent the money directly to AggregateIQ.Vote Leave denies breaking any campaign finance regulations. Dominic Cummings  the Vote Leave strategist  called Wylie a "fantasist-charlatan."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  12:00 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A Cambridge Analytica whistleblower said on Tuesday that Canadian company AggregateIQ worked on software called Ripon which was used to identify Republican voters ahead of the 2016 U.S. presidential election.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to request for comment on the remarks by Christopher Wylie  a whistleblower formerly of British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Wylie has previously disclosed how users' data from Facebook was used by Cambridge Analytica to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump.Ripon  the town in which the Republican Party was founded in 1854  was the name given to a tool that let a campaign manage its voter database  target specific voters  conduct canvassing  manage fundraising and carry out surveys.Advertisement"There's now tangible proof in the public domain that AIQ actually built Ripon  which is the software that utilised the algorithms from the Facebook data " Wylie told the British Parliament's Digital  Culture  Media and Sport Committee.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AggregateIQ told Reuters on March 24 that it had never been and is not a part of Cambridge Analytica nor ever entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica.AdvertisementIt said it works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements and had never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity.Cambridge Analytica said on Tuesday that it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data procured by a Cambridge academic with AggregateIQ. It said it had not had any communication with AggregateIQ since December 2015.(Reporting by Alistair Smout  Andy Bruce and Eric Auchard  editing by Guy Faulconbridge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  2:17 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc chief executive Mark Zuckerberg will appear before the U.S. Congress to answer questions on data privacy and other issues  but it is not clear to which committee or committees he will testify  a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday.The Senate Judiciary Committee has invited Zuckerberg to testify at an April 10 hearing along with the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc.The House Energy and Commerce Committee and Senate Commerce committees have also asked him to testify but have not set dates.Members of Congress want answers on how 50 million users’ data got into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.(Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  1:56 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A scandal engulfing Facebook over the use of its data by political consultants widened on Tuesday when a whistleblower said Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed a program to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election.Christopher Wylie  who previously revealed that consultancy Cambridge Analytica had accessed the data of 50 million Facebook users to build voter profiles on behalf of Donald Trump's campaign  said AggregateIQ (AIQ) had built software called Ripon to profile voters.Wylie was giving evidence to a British parliamentary committee over the scandal  minutes after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg declined to appear before the legislators to discuss what went wrong.The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again.CNN said Zuckerberg had decided to testify before the U.S. Congress.AdvertisementThe revelations around Facebook data have hammered the stock price of the world's biggest social network and raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation.Advertisement"There's now tangible proof in the public domain that AIQ actually built Ripon  which is the software that utilized the algorithms from the Facebook data " Wylie told the British Parliament's Digital  Culture  Media and Sport Committee.Facebook is facing intense scrutiny after Wylie's revelations about improper use of personal data and the role that could have played in the 2016 U.S. election.Zuckerberg apologized last week for the mistakes Facebook had made and promised tougher steps to restrict third-party access to such information.Ripon  the Wisconsin town where the Republican Party was founded in 1854  was the name given to a tool that let a campaign manage its voter database  target specific voters  conduct canvassing  manage fundraising and carry out surveys.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the remarks. The company previously told Reuters that it had never been and is not a part of Cambridge Analytica nor ever entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ.The Canadian federal agency charged with protecting privacy rights of individuals said on Tuesday that it has contacted its counterpart in British Columbia to discuss the provincial office's review of AggregateIQ.ABSOLUTELY ASTONISHINGWith the scandal around Facebook widening  Britain's cross-party media committee had invited Zuckerberg to parliament to explain how personal data had ended up in the hands of  Cambridge Analytica  the London-based political consultancy which was working on the Trump campaign.The company said he had asked one of his deputies to attend the hearing in London  suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject.Advertisement"These issues must be addressed at the most senior levels of the company by those in an authoritative position " wrote Rebecca Stimson  head of public policy  Facebook UK."As such Mr Zuckerberg has personally asked one of his deputies to make themselves available to give evidence in person to the committee."Damian Collins  the head of Britain's media committee  asked the company to rethink. "Given the extraordinary evidence that we've heard so far today... it is absolutely astonishing that Mark Zuckerberg is not prepared to submit himself to questioning " he said.Wylie was also quizzed on the use of data in the 2016 Brexit referendum  which has become a hot topic in Britain.Whistleblowers have has said the main campaign for leaving the EU broke the law on spending limits by spending money with another Brexit campaign group that it was closely affiliated with  a claim denied by senior Brexit campaigners.Vote Leave denies any wrongdoing.(Additional reporting by Eric Auchard; editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Adrian Croft)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  9:38 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before U.S. Congress  a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday  as he bows to pressure from lawmakers insisting he explain how 50 million users' data ended up in the hands of a political consultancy.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Facebook said the company had received invitations to testify before Congress and that they were talking to legislators.Facebook shares closed down 4.9 percent on Tuesday and have fallen almost 18 percent since March 16  when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica  which was hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.AdvertisementThe tech sector is down 5.2 percent for March and on track for its worst month since April 2016. The data breach has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation.AdvertisementHouse Energy and Commerce Committee spokeswoman Elena Hernandez said "The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify".On the same day  Zuckerberg turned down British lawmakers' invitations to explain to a British parliamentary committee what went wrong.The company said it would instead send one of his deputies  suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject.The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again.Christopher Wylie  the whistleblower who once worked at Cambridge Analytica  said on Monday that Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed the software that used the algorithms from the Facebook data to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wylie's remarks. Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in Trump's campaign  and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.In full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers this week Zuckerberg said the app built by a university researcher "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014".He apologized last week for the mistakes the company had made and promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy.AdvertisementThe U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg  as well as the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy.The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee had already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing on Monday that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook."(Writing by Susan Thomas; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  6:36 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The Latest on the Facebook privacy scandal (all times local):11:30 p.m.Published reports say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is planning to testify before Congress about how his company collects and uses people's data.CNN is citing unnamed sources in a report Tuesday that Zuckerberg has "come to terms" with the fact that he'll have to testify in a matter of weeks. A Facebook representative said the company has received invitations to appear before congress and is talking to legislators.Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he'd be "happy to" testify if he is the right person to do it. The company is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.___2 p.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is snubbing a summons from a British Parliamentary committee investigating the rise of fake news  offering to send senior executives in his place.AdvertisementDamian Collins  chairman of Parliament's media committee  urged Zuckerberg to "think again" Tuesday about choosing not to appear and repeated an offer to have him testify via video link.AdvertisementFacebook has offered to send chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer or chief product officer Chris Cox.Zuckerberg is also under pressure to appear before U.S. Congress following allegations that consultants Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election.___1:50 p.m.The computer expert who sparked a global debate over electronic privacy has told lawmakers that the official campaign backing Britain's exit from the European Union had access to data that was inappropriately collected from millions of Facebook users.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Christopher Wylie previously alleged that Cambridge Analytica used data harvested from more than 50 million Facebook users to help U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign.Wylie told the House of Commons' media committee on Tuesday that he "absolutely" believed Canadian campaign consultant AggregateIQ had drawn on Cambridge Analytica's databases for its work on the EU referendum.He told the committee: "You can't have targeting software that doesn't access the database. Cambridge Analytica would have a database and AIQ would access that database  otherwise the software wouldn't work."___9:55 a.m.The whistleblower at the heart of the Facebook privacy scandal is set to testify before British lawmakers investigating the increasing rise of fake news.Christopher Wylie has alleged that Cambridge Analytica harvested details of 50 million Facebook users and used the material in U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign. It is alleged the material made it possible to micro-target users with campaign material.At a news conference on Monday on a linked issue  Wylie declined to answer questions about whether the data was also used in Britain by the campaign to leave the European Union. He said he would discuss the matter when he spoke to lawmakers from Parliament's media committee on Tuesday.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  6:08 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British lawmakers still want to question Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg over how millions of users' details got into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica after the company said it would send another executive to appear before them."We would still like to hear from Mr Zuckerberg as well " lawmaker Damian Collins  who heads parliament's Digital  Culture  Media and Sport committee  said on Tuesday."We will seek to clarify with Facebook whether he is available to give evidence or not as that wasn't clear from our correspondence and if he is available to give evidence then we will be happy to do that either in person or by video link."(Reporting by Alistair Smout; writing by Costas Pitas; editing by Stephen Addison)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy SAPNA MAHESHWARIMARCH 28  2018
An advertising trade group that gave an award to Cambridge Analytica last year for its “big data” work during the 2016 presidential election is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected and used.The trade group  the Advertising Research Foundation  said it was waiting for more information before formally rescinding the award given to Cambridge Analytica  the British political consulting firm that was recently reported to have improperly harvested the data of 50 million Facebook users. The revelations have brought intense criticism of Facebook  which is facing inquiries from lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic around how it handles user information  and have many people taking a closer look at the role of data in online advertising."We’ve tended to assume that because you can do something  you should ” Scott McDonald  chief executive of the ad group  said in an interview on Tuesday. He added that advertisers had been more concerned with the accuracy and validity of data they received from technology companies than with asking whether they should be collecting that data and using it to target consumers in the first place.Mr. McDonald addressed the Cambridge Analytica situation and the need for new guidelines during a speech on Wednesday morning at the group’s annual convention in New York.AdvertisementThings were much different last year  when Cambridge Analytica won a gold prize at the foundation’s David Ogilvy Awards  which have been given annually since 1994. The firm was honored for its work for the Trump campaign  in which it identified and advertised to undecided voters.AdvertisementThe selection  made by a jury of ad industry leaders  was “very controversial because of the nature of the campaign ” Mr. McDonald said. But the ad group viewed itself as “Switzerland ” he said  and was simply conducting “a scientific evaluation of the quality of work.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Nobody had any idea the data might have been pilfered ” he said. Mr. McDonald said he planned to potentially poll the jury again and “see if the accusations are sustained” before officially stripping Cambridge Analytica of the award.The existence of the award highlights the enthusiasm with which marketers have approached the reams of consumer data generated by digital devices and their belief that people are happy to share whatever information technology may be collecting from them.The Advertising Research Foundation  which acknowledged that the United States may adopt new regulations on how consumer data is collected  said it planned to work with other industry groups to form new guidelines for collecting and protecting that information. Mr. McDonald said advertising had gone too far in viewing consumers as prey  noting that even the industry’s vocabulary had become militarylike.“We talk about ad campaigns  consumers we target. We talk about subway takeovers  pop-ups ” he said. “These are fairly aggressive  and I don’t think we even think about it — they’re just embedded in the metaphors of advertising.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MATTHEW ROSENBERGMARCH 27  2018
As a start-up called Cambridge Analytica sought to harvest the Facebook data of tens of millions of Americans in summer 2014  the company received help from at least one employee at Palantir Technologies  a top Silicon Valley contractor to American spy agencies and the Pentagon.It was a Palantir employee in London  working closely with the data scientists building Cambridge’s psychological profiling technology  who suggested the scientists create their own app — a mobile-phone-based personality quiz — to gain access to Facebook users’ friend networks  according to documents obtained by The New York Times.Cambridge ultimately took a similar approach. By early summer  the company found a university researcher to harvest data using a personality questionnaire and Facebook app. The researcher scraped private data from over 50 million Facebook users — and Cambridge Analytica went into business selling so-called psychometric profiles of American voters  setting itself on a collision course with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain.[Read more about the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower contending that data-mining swung the Brexit referendum.]AdvertisementThe revelations pulled Palantir — co-founded by the wealthy libertarian Peter Thiel — into the furor surrounding Cambridge  which improperly obtained Facebook data to build analytical tools it deployed on behalf of Donald J. Trump and other Republican candidates in 2016. Mr. Thiel  a supporter of President Trump  serves on the board at Facebook.Advertisement“There were senior Palantir employees that were also working on the Facebook data ” said Christopher Wylie  a data expert and Cambridge Analytica co-founder  in testimony before British lawmakers on Tuesday.Cambridge Analytica has found itself confronting a deepening crisis since reports about the firm’s data harvesting were published this month in The New York Times  The Observer of London and The Guardian.The connections between Palantir and Cambridge Analytica were thrust into the spotlight by Mr. Wylie’s testimony on Tuesday. Both companies are linked to tech-driven billionaires who backed Mr. Trump’s campaign: Cambridge is chiefly owned by Robert Mercer  the computer scientist and hedge fund magnate  while Palantir was co-founded in 2003 by Mr. Thiel  who was an initial investor in Facebook.The Palantir employee  Alfredas Chmieliauskas  works on business development for the company  according to his LinkedIn page. In an initial statement  Palantir said it had “never had a relationship with Cambridge Analytica  nor have we ever worked on any Cambridge Analytica data.” Later on Tuesday  Palantir revised its account  saying that Mr. Chmieliauskas was not acting on the company’s behalf when he advised Mr. Wylie on the Facebook data.“We learned today that an employee  in 2013-2014  engaged in an entirely personal capacity with people associated with Cambridge Analytica ” the company said. “We are looking into this and will take the appropriate action.”The company said it was continuing to investigate but knew of no other employees who took part in the effort. Mr. Wylie told lawmakers that multiple Palantir employees played a role.Documents and interviews indicate that starting in 2013  Mr. Chmieliauskas began corresponding with Mr. Wylie and a colleague from his Gmail account. At the time  Mr. Wylie and the colleague worked for the British defense and intelligence contractor SCL Group  which formed Cambridge Analytica with Mr. Mercer the next year. The three shared Google documents to brainstorm ideas about using big data to create sophisticated behavioral profiles  a product code-named “Big Daddy.”AdvertisementA former intern at SCL — Sophie Schmidt  the daughter of Eric Schmidt  then Google’s executive chairman — urged the company to link up with Palantir  according to Mr. Wylie’s testimony and a June 2013 email viewed by The Times.“Ever come across Palantir. Amusingly Eric Schmidt’s daughter was an intern with us and is trying to push us towards them?” one SCL employee wrote to a colleague in the email.Ms. Schmidt did not respond to requests for comment  nor did a spokesman for Cambridge Analytica.In early 2013  Alexander Nix  an SCL director who became chief executive of Cambridge Analytica  and a Palantir executive discussed working together on election campaigns.A Palantir spokeswoman acknowledged that the companies had briefly considered working together but said that Palantir declined a partnership  in part because executives there wanted to steer clear of election work. Emails reviewed by The Times indicate that Mr. Nix and Mr. Chmieliauskas sought to revive talks about a formal partnership through early 2014  but Palantir executives again declined.In his testimony  Mr. Wylie acknowledged that Palantir and Cambridge Analytica never signed a contract or entered into a formal business relationship. But he said some Palantir employees helped engineer Cambridge’s psychographic models.“There were Palantir staff who would come into the office and work on the data ” Mr. Wylie told lawmakers. “And we would go and meet with Palantir staff at Palantir.” He did not provide an exact number for the employees or identify them.Palantir employees were impressed with Cambridge’s backing from Mr. Mercer  one of the world’s richest men  according to messages viewed by The Times. And Cambridge Analytica viewed Palantir’s Silicon Valley ties as a valuable resource for launching and expanding its own business.In an interview this month with The Times  Mr. Wylie said that Palantir employees were eager to learn more about using Facebook data and psychographics. Those discussions continued through spring 2014  according to Mr. Wylie.AdvertisementMr. Wylie said that he and Mr. Nix visited Palantir’s London office on Soho Square. One side was set up like a high-security office  Mr. Wylie said  with separate rooms that could be entered only with particular codes. The other side  he said  was like a tech start-up — “weird inspirational quotes and stuff on the wall and free beer  and there’s a Ping-Pong table.”Mr. Chmieliauskas continued to communicate with Mr. Wylie’s team in 2014  as the Cambridge employees were locked in protracted negotiations with a researcher at Cambridge University  Michal Kosinski  to obtain Facebook data through an app Mr. Kosinski had built. The data was crucial to efficiently scale up Cambridge’s psychometrics products so they could be used in elections and for corporate clients.“I had left field idea ” Mr. Chmieliauskas wrote in May 2014. “What about replicating the work of the cambridge prof as a mobile app that connects to facebook?” Reproducing the app  Mr. Chmieliauskas wrote  “could be a valuable leverage negotiating with the guy.”Those negotiations failed. But Mr. Wylie struck gold with another Cambridge researcher  the Russian-American psychologist Aleksandr Kogan  who built his own personality quiz app for Facebook. Over subsequent months  Dr. Kogan’s work helped Cambridge develop psychological profiles of millions of American voters.Carole Cadwalladr contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Spy Contractor’s Idea Helped A Firm Harvest Facebook Data.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  10:38 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The suspended chief executive of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica  Alexander Nix  will appear before a British parliamentary committee  the Culture  Media and Sport Committee said on Wednesday.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters.The session will be Nix's second appearance before the committee and is likely to take place on April 17.(Reporting by William James  editing by Elizabeth Piper)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  11:09 A.M. E.D.T.
BOGOTA —  Colombia  which will hold presidential elections in May  on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica  the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Colombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Pig.gi  which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friends. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined  the regulator said.The app  which users download via the Google Play store and sign into using their Facebook account  is administered by Farrow Colombia S.A.S and Farrow Mexico S.A.P.I. de CV  the statement said.AdvertisementAttempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful. A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company. There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company.Advertisement"As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Pig.gi application  the application Pig.gi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted " the regulator said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow. The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media  as will websites where it can be downloaded.The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States  United Kingdom  European Union and Mexico.Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data  after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign  and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelson Bocanegra; Editing by David Gregorio)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  2:42 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook Inc Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg plans to testify before U.S. Congress  a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday  as he bows to pressure from lawmakers insisting he explain how 50 million users' data ended up in the hands of a political consultancy.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Facebook said the company had received invitations to testify before Congress and that they were talking to legislators.Facebook shares closed down 4.9 percent on Tuesday and have fallen almost 18 percent since March 16  when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channelled to Cambridge Analytica  which was hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.AdvertisementThe tech sector is down 5.2 percent for March and on track for its worst month since April 2016. The data breach has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers and lead to tougher regulation.AdvertisementHouse Energy and Commerce Committee spokeswoman Elena Hernandez said "The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify".On the same day  Zuckerberg turned down British lawmakers' invitations to explain to a British parliamentary committee what went wrong.The company said it would instead send one of his deputies  suggesting that Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox had the expertise to answer questions on the complex subject.The head of the committee called Zuckerberg's decision "astonishing" and urged him to think again.Christopher Wylie  the whistleblower who once worked at Cambridge Analytica  said on Monday that Canadian company AggregateIQ had developed the software that used the algorithms from the Facebook data to target Republican voters in the 2016 U.S. election.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.AggregateIQ did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wylie's remarks. Cambridge Analytica said it had not shared any of the Facebook profile data with AggregateIQ.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in Trump's campaign  and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.In full-page advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers this week Zuckerberg said the app built by a university researcher "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014".He apologised last week for the mistakes the company had made and promised to restrict developers' access to user information as part of a plan to protect privacy.AdvertisementThe U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee said on Monday it had invited Zuckerberg  as well as the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy.The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee had already formally asked Zuckerberg to appear at a congressional hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission took the unusual step of announcing on Monday that it had opened an investigation into the company - which it generally only does in cases of great public interest - citing media reports that raise what it called "substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook."(Writing by Susan Thomas; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  3:38 A.M. E.D.T.
WELLINGTON —  New Zealand's privacy commissioner joined international criticism against Facebook Inc  saying on Wednesday it has broken the law by declining a citizen access to personal information held on the accounts of other users.In a statement  the commissioner said that after being notified of its complaint  Facebook responded that it did not have to comply with the body's demand for the information.The commissioner "considers it necessary to publicly identify Facebook in order to highlight its demonstrated unwillingness to comply with the law  and to inform the New Zealand public of Facebook's position " the statement said.The commissioner's statement said "the social media company said the Privacy Act did not apply to it and it did not have to comply with the Commissioner's request to review the information requested by the complainant."AdvertisementThe commissioner said its powers beyond demanding information were limited.A spokeswoman for Facebook said the company had investigated the complaint but had not been provided enough detail to fully resolve it.Advertisement"We are disappointed that the New Zealand Privacy Commissioner asked us to provide access to a year's worth of private data belonging to several people and then criticized us for protecting their privacy " she said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We scrutinize all requests to disclose personal data  particularly the contents of private messages  and will challenge those that are overly broad...Instead the Commissioner has made a broad and intrusive request for private data."Facebook has come into spotlight over the past week over its handling of data from millions of users.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about the company's privacy practices after a whistleblower said consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in elections.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign  and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.(Reporting by Marius Zaharia in WELLINGTON. Additional reporting by Melanie Burton in MELBOURNE; Editing by Richard Borsuk and Michael Perry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  7:08 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc is giving users more control over their privacy by making data management easier and redesigning the settings menu  the company said on Wednesday  in the wake of a scandal over a breach that exposed the personal information of millions and was allegedly used by a political consultancy.The company also said it would propose in the coming weeks updates to the social media website's terms of service and data policy to better spell out what information it collects and how it uses it.The company has faced a global outcry after a whistleblower said that data from millions of users was improperly harvested by consultancy Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Facebook shares are down nearly 18 percent since March 16  when it first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled to Cambridge Analytica  eating away nearly $100 billion of the company's market value.Advertisement"We've heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find  and that we must do more to keep people informed " Erin Egan  Facebook's chief privacy officer  and Ashlie Beringer  its deputy general counsel  said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In addition to redesigning its settings menu on mobile devices  Facebook said it is creating a new privacy shortcut menu where users would be able to better secure their accounts and control personal information. It would also allow users to review and delete data they have shared  including posts and search queries.Users would be able to download the data shared with Facebook  including uploaded photos  contacts added to their account  and posts on timelines.Advertisement(Reporting by Philip George and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  8:56 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network  a step that follows a scandal over how Facebook handles personal information.The world's largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook adjusted the privacy settings on its service on Wednesday  giving users control over their personal information in fewer taps.Facebook has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom Corp and Experian PLC.AdvertisementThe tool has been widely used among certain categories of advertisers - such as automakers  luxury goods producers and consumer packaged goods companies - who do not sell directly to consumers and have relatively little information about who their customers are  according to Facebook.Advertisement"While this is common industry practice  we believe this step  winding down over the next six months  will help improve people's privacy on Facebook " Graham Mudd  a Facebook product marketing director  said in a statement.Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 after Facebook's announcement after the bell. Shares in other data brokers were largely unchanged. A representative for Acxiom could not immediately be reached for comment.Facebook declined to comment on how the change could affect its ad revenue.Advertisers would still be able to use third-party data services to measure how well their ads performed by examining purchasing data  Facebook said.Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with  including Acxiom  Experian  Oracle Data Cloud  TransUnion and WPP PLC.None of the companies could immediately be reached for comment.Facebook on Wednesday also put all its privacy settings on one page and made it easier to stop third-party apps from using personal information. Privacy settings had previously been spread over at least 20 screens  Facebook said.Facebook said in a blog post it had been working on the updates for some time but sped things up to appease users' anger over how the company uses data and as lawmakers around the globe call for regulation.Facebook's shares closed up 0.5 percent at $153.03 on Wednesday. They are still down more than 17 percent since March 16  when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled in 2014 via a third-party app to Cambridge Analytica  which was later hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The data leak has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers  who are Facebook's lifeblood  and lead to tougher regulation.AdvertisementSCRUTINY FROM LAWMAKERSFacebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the mistakes the company made and has promised to crack down on abuse of the Facebook platform and restrict developers' access to user information.There is a new Facebook page - called Access Your Information - where users can see what they have shared and manage it."The biggest difference is ease of access in settings  which fulfills Mark Zuckerberg's promise to make the privacy process and permissions more transparent to users " Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said.It was uncertain whether the changes will satisfy lawmakers.They were announced ahead of a stringent European Union data law which comes into force in May. It requires companies to give people a "right to portability" - to take their data with them - and imposes fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for companies breaking the law.Lawmakers in the United States and Britain are still clamoring for Zuckerberg himself to explain how users' data ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.He plans to testify before Congress  a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. Facebook has said it has received invitations to testify and that it is talking to legislators.Zuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc have been invited to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have also asked Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook  and attorneys representing 37 states are also pressing Zuckerberg to explain what happened.(Reporting by David Ingram and Julia Fioretti; Additional reporting by Laharee Chatterjee and Arjun Panchadar; Editing by James Dalgleish and Cynthia Osterman)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy SHEERA FRENKEL and NATASHA SINGERMARCH 28  2018
Facebook said it would roll out a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.The system  which will be introduced to Facebook users globally over the coming weeks  will allow people to change their privacy and security settings from one place rather than having to go to roughly 20 separate sections across the social media platform.From the new page  users can control the personal information the social network keeps on them  such as their political preferences or interests  and download and review a file of data Facebook has collected about them. Facebook also will clarify what types of apps people are currently using and what permissions those apps have to gather their information.Facebook began developing the centralized system last year but sped it up after revelations that a British political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  improperly harvested the information of 50 million users of the social network. The amount of data Cambridge Analytica obtained about Facebook users reawakened fears over how much information the social network has gathered about people  leading to a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism.Advertisement“The last week showed how much more work we need to do to enforce our policies  and to help people understand how Facebook works and the choices they have over their data ” Erin Egan  Facebook’s chief privacy officer  and Ashlie Beringer  a Facebook deputy general counsel  said in a statement announcing the new system. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find  and that we must do more to keep people informed.”AdvertisementThe Cambridge Analytica scandal has plunged Facebook into its worst crisis in years  with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain demanding answers about how the social network deals with data privacy. Mark Zuckerberg  Facebook’s chief executive  has agreed to appear in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill next month  people familiar with the decision have said.Last week  Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement that Facebook had to do better with user data and promised to roll out products that give users more control over their information and privacy settings.In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal  in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights  many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.”“One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data ” he told The New York Times last week. “Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to  that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar.Late Wednesday  Facebook also said that it was halting its practice of allowing advertisers to target ads using information from third-party data brokers. These are business-to-business companies that can collect a vast range of details about individual consumers such as their shopping habits  health concerns  income range and preferred credit card.The social network had previously allowed advertisers to use consumer details from data brokers like Experian  Acxiom and Oracle’s Datalogix unit to help target ads to Facebook users. But Facebook said it was now mothballing that option  called “Partner Categories.””We want to let advertisers know that we will be shutting down Partner Categories ” Graham Mudd  a product marketing director at Facebook  said in a statement.The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“This product enables third-party data providers to offer their targeting directly on Facebook ” he added. “While this is common industry practice  we believe this step  winding down over the next six months  will help improve people’s privacy on Facebook.”AdvertisementIn 2012  the Federal Trade Commission opened an inquiry into data brokers and subsequently recommended that Congress consider enacting a law “to make data broker practices more visible to consumers and to give consumers greater control over the immense amounts of personal information about them collected and shared by data brokers.”How much of a difference these actions may make to Facebook’s data privacy practices was unclear. Some privacy advocates noted  for instance  that the company’s new centralized privacy and security settings page has been tried in the past.“The platform made similar promises many times before ” said Zeynep Tufekci  an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who studies how technology affects society. She pointed out that in 2010  Mr. Zuckerberg said in The Washington Post that Facebook users needed simpler controls over their privacy and had promised then that Facebook would “add privacy controls that are much simpler to use.”Yet eight years later  the same concerns have resurfaced  Ms. Tufekci said.“The past decade shows that user concerns over privacy appear to have little teeth on changing how the platform behaves  aside from a recycling of contrite statements and promises to do better from its C.E.O. ” she said.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Natasha Singer on Twitter: @sheeraf and @natashanytA version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook  Stung by Data Harvest  Says It Will Centralize Its Privacy Settings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  2:33 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Some 60 companies including such leading brands as Subway  Sprint and the NFL are joining forces to help each other follow you around online.Adobe  a company better known for Photoshop and PDF files  says the new Device Co-op initiative it is organizing will help companies offer more personalized experiences and make ads less annoying by filtering out products and services you have already bought or will never buy. Under the initiative  Adobe can tell you're the same person on a home PC  a work laptop  a phone and a tablet by analyzing past sign-ins with member companies.The initiative comes amid heightened privacy sensitivities after reports that Facebook allowed a political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  to harvest data on millions of Facebook users to influence elections. Facebook also has been criticized for collecting call and text logs from phones running Google's Android system.Adobe's initiative underscores the role data plays in helping companies make money. Many of the initial uses are for better ad targeting.AdvertisementThe company timed Wednesday's announcement to a digital marketing conference it is hosting this week in Las Vegas. Adobe executives said they believed their initiative offers strong privacy safeguards and weren't worried about a backlash in light of the Facebook scandal.Advertisement"With this stuff coming out now around Cambridge Analytica and Facebook  the bar has to be so high in terms of privacy " Adobe executive Amit Ahuja said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Adobe says no personal data is being exchanged among participating companies  which also include Allstate  Lenovo  Intel  Barnes & Noble  Subaru and the Food Network. Adobe says the program links about 300 million consumers across nearly 2 billion devices in the U.S. and Canada.The program would let Sprint  for instance  know that Bob is already a customer when he visits from a new device. Bob wouldn't get a promotion to switch from another carrier  but might get instead a phone upgrade offer. Or if Mary has declared herself a Giants fan on the NFL's app  she might see ads with Giants banners when visiting NFL.com from a laptop for the first time.All this might feel creepy  but such cross-device tracking is already commonly done by matching attributes such as devices that from the same internet location  or IP address. Consumers typically have little control over it.Adobe says it will give consumers a chance to opt out of such tracking. And it's breaking industry practices in a few ways. Adobe says it will honor opt-out requests for all participating companies and for all devices at once. It's more typical for such setups to require people do so one by one. All companies in the initiative are listed on Adobe's website  a break from some companies' practice of referring only to unspecified partners."We're doing everything we can not letting brands hide themselves " Ahuja said.But in taking an opt-out approach  which is common in the industry  Adobe assumes that users consent. And it places the burden on consumers to learn about this initiative and to figure out how they can opt out of it.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  7:17 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A committee of British lawmakers published written evidence on Thursday provided by a whistleblower who says information about 50 million Facebook users ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica said the documents did not support whistleblower Christopher Wylie's testimony to the committee this week.Wylie  who formerly worked for Cambridge Analytica (CA)  alleges the data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and raise support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.He also alleges that CA was linked to Canadian firm AggregateIQ (AIQ)  which he says was involved in the development of the software used to target voters. AggregateIQ  he says  received payment from a pro-Brexit campaign group before the 2016 referendum when Britain voted to quit the European Union.AdvertisementThis was co-ordinated with the lead "Vote Leave" group in a breach of British electoral funding rules  Wylie alleged. Vote Leave denies any wrongdoing.AdvertisementWylie appeared before the Digital  Culture  Media and Sport Committee of the British parliament on Tuesday. The committee said Wylie provided it with documents including a services agreement between AIQ and SCL Elections  an affiliate of Cambridge Analytica  dated September 2014.Reuters was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the documents made public by the committee.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."None of these documents support the false allegations made in Tuesday's hearing " Cambridge Analytica said in a statement  adding that Wylie had left the company in July 2014 and would have no direct knowledge of its work or practices since then."It is wrong to suggest that Cambridge Analytica's earlier relationship with Aggregate IQ implies that we were involved with their work for Vote Leave. Cambridge Analytica did no work in any capacity in the 2016 EU referendum."AIQ did not respond to a Reuters request for comment after Tuesday's committee hearing  but in an earlier statement said it had never entered into a contract with Cambridge Analytica and had never been part of the firm.The parliamentary committee's chairman has said it was "astonishing" that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg decided not to answer lawmakers' questions  given the claims that Wylie had made about how data was used.(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Andrew Roche and David Stamp)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:12 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The suspended chief executive of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica  Alexander Nix  will appear before a British parliamentary committee  the Culture  Media and Sport Committee said on Wednesday.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters.The session will be Nix's second appearance before the committee and is likely to take place on April 17.(Reporting by William James  editing by Elizabeth Piper)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:05 P.M. E.D.T.
BOGOTA —  A cellphone application blocked by the Colombian commerce regulator said on Thursday it has not shared Colombian users' data with Cambridge Analytica  the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Colombia  which will hold presidential elections in May  on Wednesday blocked access to the Pig.gi app  which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and completing surveys. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined.The regulator said the app might be connected to Cambridge Analytica  accused by a whistleblower of improperly accessing data to target U.S. and British voters in recent elections.A representative for the app told Reuters in an email on Thursday that Pig.gi did not have a relationship with the consultancy in the Andean country and that it has not shared any data gained from surveys of Colombian users with Cambridge Analytica.AdvertisementPig.gi also said it had not yet been informed of the ban by the Colombian regulator."Pig.gi users have the choice to share their opinions consensually in exchange for internet connectivity coins. Their opinions are always anonymized before they are sent in accordance with Colombian and Mexican law " the app said in a statement posted on its Facebook page.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The app cut ties with Cambridge Analytica in Mexico after the data scandal broke  saying it had shared results of two election polls of Mexican users with the consultancy and other partners.AdvertisementThe commerce regulator said it would comment when its investigation had concluded.Facebook said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network. The company says the information of about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Cambridge Analytica has denied Facebook data was used to help to build profiles on American voters and build support for Donald Trump in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb  editing by G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:12 A.M. E.D.T.
BOGOTA —  Colombia  which will hold presidential elections in May  on Wednesday blocked access to a cell phone application it said might be connected with Cambridge Analytica  the political consultancy that has been accused of violating Facebook users' privacy to influence elections in Britain and the United States.Lawmakers in the United States and Europe are demanding to know more about Facebook's privacy practices after a whistleblower said Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed data to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections.Colombia's commerce regulator said in a statement it would block an application called Pig.gi  which gives users free top-ups in exchange for receiving ads and recommending their friends. The app has more than a million downloads in Colombia and Mexico combined  the regulator said.The app  which users download via the Google Play store and sign into using their Facebook account  is administered by Farrow Colombia S.A.S and Farrow Mexico S.A.P.I. de CV  the statement said.AdvertisementAttempts to reach Farrow for comment were unsuccessful. A number listed for Farrow in Colombia belongs to another company. There is no listed number for the Mexico branch of the company.Advertisement"As a preventative measure and taking into account the potential risk of a wrongful and massive illegal use of the personal data of thousands of Colombians collected via the download of the Pig.gi application  the application Pig.gi is temporarily blocked while appropriate investigations are undertaken and definitive decisions adopted " the regulator said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The regulator did not specify what evidence it had of a connection between Cambridge Analytica and Farrow. The application will be blocked on the Google Play app store and on social media  as will websites where it can be downloaded.The regulator added it has requested cooperation and information from its counterparts in the United States  United Kingdom  European Union and Mexico.Facebook announced a series of changes on Wednesday to give users more control over their data  after the scandal wiped more than $100 billion from its stock market value.Cambridge Analytica has said it did not use Facebook data in U.S. President Donald Trump's campaign  and that it had deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.Colombia will hold presidential elections on May 27.(Reporting by Julia Symmes Cobb and Nelson Bocanegra; Editing by David Gregorio)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement
Common Sense By                     
 JAMES B. STEWART
 
MARCH 29  2018
Over the last half decade  few stocks have been more beloved by investors and Wall Street analysts than Facebook. No wonder: After a rocky initial public offering in 2012  it has rolled over one obstacle after another  including the shift to mobile computing and the rise of photo sharing. It delivered revenue and user growth that surpassed even the most optimistic projections.By the end of last year  Facebook had 2.2 billion active users. Its stock rose 53 percent last year  single-handedly accounting for 3.7 percent of the 21.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index  according to S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. By early February  its market capitalization had surpassed $560 billion  making it the fifth most valuable company in the index.By then Facebook alone accounted for nearly 2 percent of the S.&P. 500 index  which means that anyone who owns a broad-based stock mutual fund or index fund probably owns Facebook shares. Sophisticated investors and institutions  too  have considerable exposure: Goldman Sachs analysts reported last month that Facebook was the second most widely held stock (after Amazon) by hedge funds.Over 90 percent of Wall Street analysts covering the company deemed Facebook a “buy” in early February  even though  at $195 a share  its price-to-earnings ratio  a common valuation measure  was a lofty 35. (The average ratio now is about 24; historically  it has been about 15.)AdvertisementIt was  as Wall Street pundits like to say  “priced for perfection.”Whatever else can be said about Facebook’s recent tribulations  this much is certain: Its situation is far from perfection.AdvertisementAfter revelations that data harvested from Facebook may have been used to try to influence Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the United States presidential election  the social network giant faces multiple investigations in both Europe and the United States  along with potentially profit-crimping regulations and limits to its use of data. And investor retribution has been swift.Since hitting its peak on Feb. 2  Facebook has lost an astonishing $100 billion in market capitalization. Its stock was trading midweek at close to $153 a share  a decline of nearly 22 percent. (It rebounded by about 4.5 percent Thursday and closed at $159.79.)With Facebook’s plunge  investor concerns have spread to other social media and internet stocks with lofty multiples  like the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook  Apple and Amazon  Netflix and Google — and Twitter. They accounted for more than 10 percent of the S.&P. 500 at their peak.
            Since 2014  Facebook has been one of the hottest stocks in the market  but its recent troubles have caused it to lose about a quarter of its value.        +400%Facebookstock price+300+200+100I.P.O.S.& P. 500-stock index0–100’12’18MARCH 29  2018
“People who own an index fund need to realize how important Facebook is  and how big a role it and the FANG stocks played in the market’s rise ” said Howard Silverblatt  senior industry analyst for the S.&P. Dow Jones Indices  who oversees statistical analysis for the S.&P. 500. “The FANG leadership is faltering. Social media hasn’t faced much regulation  and now there’s a cloud hanging over those companies.”In the midst of past Facebook euphoria  few saw this coming. One that did was Aiera  a robot that uses artificial intelligence to make stock recommendations. Aiera  an acronym for artificially intelligent equity research analyst  put out a “sell” recommendation for Facebook last fall.So did Brian Wieser  a senior analyst at Pivotal Research Group  who covers media and internet companies. Although he was positive about the stock for most of its long climb  he downgraded Facebook to “sell” last summer based on regulatory and advertiser concerns and what he now considers “systemic management issues.”Not only was it a lonely position  but “the stock went up and up ” Mr. Wieser told me this week. “But I thought the market was wrong  full stop.”Advertisement“I didn’t know what the catalyst would be  but at some point revenue growth had to slow and the margins go down ” he said. “There are practical limits. And I felt investors were looking at Facebook in much too positive a light. They just ignored all the bad things  and there were a lot of them.”Then  when the news broke this month that a British firm  Cambridge Analytica  had used Facebook data for voter profiling  Mr. Wieser said  he thought it was “the most significant thing that had happened to Facebook since it became a public company.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Most people hadn’t given much thought to how their data is used ” he added. “But this really exposed the potential abuse. This is digital advertising’s original sin  and there’s going to be a reckoning that even now I don’t think most investors fully appreciate.”The other Facebook skeptic  Aiera  can talk  but Wells Fargo — whose global internet analyst  Ken Sena  developed the robot along with Bryan Healey — wasn’t making its wunderkind available for interviews. But based on Aiera’s published comments  it issued its sell recommendation after analyzing the frequency of negative mentions in the media of Russia’s use of Facebook to influence the presidential election  as well as fundamental valuation and technical factors. (Aiera uses artificial intelligence to read and analyze a half-million pieces of data per day gleaned from the internet. It currently analyzes more than 1 600 stocks.)Wells Fargo has stressed that Aiera remains in experimental mode  but one potential advantage is that it removes all human emotion from its analysis. Thus  Aiera was indifferent to the fact that nearly every other analyst had a buy recommendation on Facebook.That included her putative master  Mr. Sena  who was thrust into the somewhat awkward position of explaining his own buy recommendation even as Aiera said sell.When I spoke to him this week  Mr. Sena stressed that Aiera was a tool that could detect patterns and eliminate bias. “Aiera said election interference was a big deal  and it turned out it was a big deal ” Mr. Sena said. “But it’s not meant to supplant human judgments.”He hasn’t changed his buy recommendation even though he agrees with Mr. Wieser that investors need to take threats of regulation seriously. “The conventional wisdom was that people don’t care that much about how their data is used ” Mr. Sena said. “They like the convenience of targeted advertising. But the level of public outcry over this is new.’’“Facebook is going to have to do a lot of explaining ’’ he added. “I believe they have the capability and the technology to make the platform secure. But it’s going to distract from other initiatives investors are counting on for growth  like virtual reality and video content.”AdvertisementEven so  Facebook’s decline has been so steep that even Mr. Wieser and Aiera may reassess their recommendations if they calculate that the stock has bottomed out.When he last reiterated his sell recommendation  Mr. Wieser’s price target was $152. “I don’t want to be trigger happy on this ” he said. “It’s not clear yet what happens next. I want to fine-tune my thoughts before I revisit this.”Aiera canceled her sell recommendation after the stock plunged. She hasn’t yet made a new recommendation. Of 45 analysts who cover Facebook  41 currently have a “buy” or “overweight” recommendation  up from 39 a month ago.Mr. Sena is even more bullish on Facebook than he was before  and hasn’t changed his price target of $230. “People are still glued to Facebook and Instagram ” he said.Its price-to-earnings ratio is now just 28  barely above the market average  which makes it “the cheapest stock in our coverage area  and it has some of the best growth prospects ” he said. “There’s no way mathematically to justify a loss of more than $70 billion in market cap.”Because of an editing error  an earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated the given name of Facebook’s chief executive. He is Mark Zuckerberg  not Jeff.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: As Facebook Loses Luster  Tech Stocks Await Fallout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  3:15 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW DELHI —  India's government has sent a notice to Facebook asking whether the personal data of Indian voters and users has been compromised by U.K.-based Cambridge Analytica or any other downstream entity.A similar notice was dispatched to Cambridge Analytica last week following media reports that it had misused data to profile Indians and influence their elections. The government set a Saturday deadline for Cambridge Analytica and April 7 for Facebook to respond to its inquiry.Facebook is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that the data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections.India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement late Wednesday that Facebook has its largest footprint in India in terms of its user base and sought to know "what proactive measures it is taking to ensure the safety  security and privacy of such large user data and to prevent its misuse by any third party."AdvertisementThe governing Bharatiya Janata Party and the main opposition Congress Party have accused each other of utilizing the services of the British company  but denied any link with it. Cambridge Analytica's allegedly unauthorized harvesting of Facebook data and a series of leaks linked to India's biometric database has refocused public attention on digital privacy in the country.Digital law experts say Indian regulations offered particularly weak safeguards against data breach.The Indian government's notice to Facebook sought to know "whether Facebook or its related or downstream agencies utilizing Facebook's data have previously been engaged by any entities to manipulate the Indian electoral process."Advertisement"If any such downstream entity misused data from Facebook  what is the protection available to the data subject?" it asked.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  9:26 A.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  Brexit donor Arron Banks said on Thursday Britain's data watchdog has joined the "wild unicorn chasing pack" of supporters wanting to remain in the European Union.Banks said he was asked to provide information as part of the Information Commissioner's investigation into whether data analytics were used to sway public opinion during the 2016 referendum on whether to leave the European Union.The Information Commissioner "appears to have joined the 'wild unicorn' chasing pack of 'Remainers' .. " Banks said in a statement.The watchdog is investigating the work of the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and whether the company misled the public about work it did for a pro-Brexit group run by Banks before the vote to leave the EU.(Reporting By Andrew MacAskill; editing by Stephen Addison)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:21 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  Facebook Inc said on Thursday it had begun "fact-checking" photos and videos to reduce the hoaxes and false news stories that have plagued the world's largest social media network.Facebook has for months faced an uproar among users whose complaints range from the spread of fake news to the use of the network to manipulate elections and the harvesting of 50 million people's Facebook data by the political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Manipulated photos and videos are another growing problem on social media.The fact-checking began on Wednesday in France with assistance from the news organization AFP and will soon expand to more countries and partners  Tessa Lyons  a product manager at Facebook  said in a briefing with reporters.Lyons did not say what criteria Facebook or AFP would use to evaluate photos and videos  or how much a photo could be edited or doctored before it is ruled fake.AdvertisementThe project is part of "efforts to fight false news around elections " she said.A representative for AFP could not immediately be reached for comment.AdvertisementShares of Facebook closed up 4.4 percent at $159.79 on Thursday after a tumultuous two weeks. It remained down more than 13 percent from March 16  when Facebook disclosed the Cambridge Analytica data leak and sparked fears of stricter regulation.Facebook has tried other ways to stem the spread of fake news. It has used third-party fact-checkers to identify them  and then given such stories less prominence in the Facebook News Feed when people share links to them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In January  Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook would prioritize "trustworthy" news by using member surveys to identify high-quality outlets.Samidh Chakrabarti  another Facebook product manager  said in the briefing that the company had begun to "proactively" look for election-related disinformation rather than waiting for reports from users  helping it to move more quickly.Alex Stamos  Facebook's chief security officer  said in the briefing that the company was concerned not only about false facts but also other kinds of fakery.He said Facebook wanted to reduce "fake audiences " which he described as using "tricks" to artificially expand the perception of support for a particular message  as well as "false narratives " such as headlines and language that "exploit disagreements."(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Richard Chang)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:11 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network  a step that follows a scandal over how Facebook handles personal information.The world's largest social media company is under pressure to improve its handling of data after disclosing that information about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Facebook adjusted the privacy settings on its service on Wednesday  giving users control over their personal information in fewer taps.Facebook has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom Corp and Experian PLC.AdvertisementThe tool has been widely used among certain categories of advertisers - such as automakers  luxury goods producers and consumer packaged goods companies - who do not sell directly to consumers and have relatively little information about who their customers are  according to Facebook.Advertisement"While this is common industry practice  we believe this step  winding down over the next six months  will help improve people's privacy on Facebook " Graham Mudd  a Facebook product marketing director  said in a statement.Shares in Acxiom traded down more than 10 percent to $25 after Facebook's announcement after the bell. Shares in other data brokers were largely unchanged.Acxiom said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.     The company currently expects revenue in the range of $910 million to $915 million in the 2018 fiscal year.However  for the 2019 fiscal year  Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be negatively impacted by as much as $25 million.Facebook declined to comment on how the change could affect its ad revenue.Advertisers would still be able to use third-party data services to measure how well their ads performed by examining purchasing data  Facebook said.Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with  including Acxiom  Experian  Oracle Data Cloud  TransUnion and WPP PLC.Other companies  besides Acxiom  were not available for comment.Facebook on Wednesday also put all its privacy settings on one page and made it easier to stop third-party apps from using personal information. Privacy settings had previously been spread over at least 20 screens  Facebook said.AdvertisementFacebook said in a blog post it had been working on the updates for some time but sped things up to appease users' anger over how the company uses data and as lawmakers around the globe call for regulation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook's shares closed up 0.5 percent at $153.03 on Wednesday. They are still down more than 17 percent since March 16  when Facebook first acknowledged that user data had been improperly channeled in 2014 via a third-party app to Cambridge Analytica  which was later hired by Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.The data leak has raised investor concerns that any failure by big tech companies to protect privacy could deter advertisers  who are Facebook's lifeblood  and lead to tougher regulation.SCRUTINY FROM LAWMAKERSFacebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the mistakes the company made and has promised to crack down on abuse of the Facebook platform and restrict developers' access to user information.There is a new Facebook page - called Access Your Information - where users can see what they have shared and manage it."The biggest difference is ease of access in settings  which fulfills Mark Zuckerberg's promise to make the privacy process and permissions more transparent to users " Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said.It was uncertain whether the changes will satisfy lawmakers.They were announced ahead of a stringent European Union data law which comes into force in May. It requires companies to give people a "right to portability" - to take their data with them - and imposes fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for companies breaking the law.Lawmakers in the United States and Britain are still clamoring for Zuckerberg himself to explain how users' data ended up in the hands of Cambridge Analytica.He plans to testify before Congress  a source briefed on the matter said on Tuesday. Facebook has said it has received invitations to testify and that it is talking to legislators.AdvertisementZuckerberg and the CEOs of Alphabet Inc and Twitter Inc have been invited to testify at an April 10 hearing on data privacy. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee and U.S. Senate Commerce Committee have also asked Zuckerberg to appear at a hearing.The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into Facebook  and attorneys representing 37 states are also pressing Zuckerberg to explain what happened.(Reporting by David Ingram and Julia Fioretti; Additional reporting by Laharee Chatterjee  Arjun Panchadar and Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by James Dalgleish and Cynthia Osterman)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  6:23 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Shares of Acxiom Corp plunged as much as 34 percent on Thursday  after Facebook Inc said it would end its partnerships with several large data brokers who help advertisers target people on the social network.The stock has now lost nearly half of its market value since Facebook's comments on Wednesday that added to fears of increased scrutiny around how public data is handled and shared.Facebook is under pressure to improve how it manages data after disclosing that information on about 50 million Facebook users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.The social network has for years given advertisers the option of targeting their ads based on data collected by companies such as Acxiom. Facebook's website lists nine third-party data providers that it has worked with  including Acxiom  Experian PLC  Oracle Data Cloud  TransUnion and WPP PLC.AdvertisementArkansas-based Acxiom  which earns over $800 million a year selling consumer profiles to the world's largest companies  said late on Wednesday it did not expect this change to impact its revenue or earnings for the year ending in March.AdvertisementHowever  for fiscal year 2019  Acxiom expects total revenue and profitability to be hurt by as much as $25 million."The immediate impact was small. Now the question is how far does Facebook react to its issues " First Analysis analyst Larry Berlin said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."A lot of what (Acxiom) is doing is probably not wrong and probably not at the core of the problem that Facebook has. Targeting consumers using data is sometimes very clean and sometimes it isn't."Even with little raw data  third-party data providers like  Acxiom attempt to build detailed pictures of individuals' finances  relationships  personal interests and purchasing tastes.These profiles power targeted advertising across the internet  and can also be used to determine what political issues people are interested in and how they might vote."I welcome Facebook's announcement that it will be shutting down its partner category service  using third party data to inform targeted advertising " said Britain's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham in a statement on Thursday.WPP  Experian  TransUnion and Cisco did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Shares of Acxiom were down 32 percent at $19 by midday. The stock touch its lowest in more than 2 years in early trading.TransUnion fell nearly 1 percent  while WPP was down marginally.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy IAN AUSTENMARCH 30  2018
Christopher Wylie  the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower  brought Canada into a story that’s drawn intense scrutiny to Facebook this week. And it’s not just because he’s from Victoria  British Columbia.After focusing close attention on the social network with the disclosure that Cambridge used personal data from millions of the social media site’s users without permission to help Donald J. Trump’s election campaign  Mr. Wylie brought a company from his hometown  Aggregate IQ  into the fray this week during testimony before Britain’s Parliament.In his testimony  Mr. Wylie said that Aggregrate  a subsidiary of Cambridge Analytica’s parent  drew on Cambridge’s Facebook data to sway social media opinion in favor of the Leave side in the 2016 British referendum on the European Union vote  and he repeated claims that the Canadian company was used to avoid British campaign spending limits. (The company has denied the claims.)Attention inevitably turned to Mr. Wylie’s activities in Canada. When he was 19  Mr. Wylie worked briefly in the office of Michael Ignatieff  then the Liberal leader. Then early in 2016  when Mr. Trump’s victory was not being widely predicted  Mr. Wylie  through a company called Eunoia Technologies  was given a 100 000 Canadian dollar contract by the Liberal Caucus Research Bureau. Like all of the political parties’ research shops  the bureau is separate from the party’s other operations and is funded by Parliament.Melissa Cotton  the bureau’s managing director  said in a statement that Mr. Wylie did not have access to the party’s data and that he worked on projects that appeared to have involved monitoring social media  identifying issues and analyzing how Liberal members communicate with voters.Advertisement“Preliminary work was done by Eunoia Technologies but after seeing what was offered  Liberal Caucus Research Bureau decided not to move forward.” Ms. Cotton said  without explaining why it cut ties.AdvertisementMr. Wylie’s time in Ottawa  however  brought to light something that most people have overlooked. Unlike businesses and the federal government itself  federal political parties aren’t subject to Canada’s internet privacy and data protection laws.Some of those laws date to the 1980s and the federal privacy commissioner  among others  has been calling for a 21st century update. But while Canada lags behind Europe in this area  it’s still well ahead of the United States.The political party exemption came about in part because of a parliamentary tradition of not giving bureaucrats or outside bodies control over a party’s affairs. I called Michael Pal  an assistant law professor at the University of Ottawa who studies election laws and related issues like voter suppression  and asked if it’s time for a change.“Every other sector is covered by privacy laws but political parties ” he said. “They are all using data so I don’t think there is a good argument about why they should be under privacy rules.”As for concerns about encroaching on Parliament  Professor Pal isn’t buying that either. He noted that parties were already “heavily regulated” through Elections Canada and election fund-raising laws.So what’s a Facebook user to do now? My colleague Brian X. Chen  who writes about consumer technology  has offered some guidance on minimizing privacy risks on Facebook  although his overall take on the situation facing Facebook users is a little discouraging:“What  if anything  can they do to protect their data connected to the social network?Here’s the harsh truth: Not much  short of ceasing to browse the web entirely or deleting your Facebook account.”What about deleting old Facebook and Twitter posts? Brian tried it and found that his “delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time  my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete.”Every week  receive a handpicked selection of news and opinion plus exclusive commentary from New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That  of course  leaves the option of quitting social media. And that’s what I’m interested in hearing about from you. Have the last couple of weeks turned your mind toward leaving Facebook or other social media sites? If you’re inclined  do you think it’s possible to leave? And if you leave  what will you lose and what will you gain? Please send your thoughts to nytcanada@nytimes.com.AdvertisementRead: How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of MillionsRead: Cambridge Analytica Whistle-Blower Contends Data-Mining Swung Brexit VoteRead: How to Protect Yourself (and Your Friends) on FacebookRead: Want to Purge Your Social Media Timelines? Can You Spare a Few Hours?About a year ago  I wrote about how the house where the Dionne quintuplets were born faced an uncertain future. The birth  and survival  of the quints at the height of the Great Depression was both a global sensation and a tale of grave injustice. The girls were taken from their family and made wards of the province of Ontario  ostensibly to protect them from exploitation. But the government turned around and exhibited almost like zoo animals. Millions of visitors viewed them from a special gallery.Other injustices and misfortune followed the five through their lives. The decision by the City of North Bay to turn over the log house to a village without the obvious means to maintain or restore it looked like the latest one.But much has changed in the past year. After a public campaign  North Bay reversed its decision  and the house has been moved to downtown where it will become a museum.And this week  The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada designated the birth of the quints an event of national historical significance.Carlo Tarini  a friend who acts as the family’s spokesman  told me this week that Annette and Cécile  the two surviving sisters  are doing well  although Cécile was hospitalized for a time in January because of pneumonia.“In the pre-internet decades of the 30s and 40s  the worldwide fascination they sparked as children brings shade to the Kardashian kids popularity ” Mr. Tarini wrote in an email.AdvertisementRead: 2 Survivors of Canada’s First Quintuplet Clan Reluctantly Re-emerge—The Protestant churches involved in a system that took Indigenous children away from their families to boarding schools apologized for their role in during the 1990s. While the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has asked Pope Francis to follow suit  he rejected the idea.—Alexandre Bissonnette  who killed six men at a mosque in Quebec City last year  pleaded guilty to first degree murder this week. While the move brought relief to survivors and the families of victims  the lack of a trial means that questions about his transformation from university student to killer may go unanswered.—Rusty Staub  le Grand Orange to Montrealers  has died at the age of 73. During his time with the Montreal Expos  Mr. Staub endeared himself to Quebecers on the field.—Peter Munk  who created one of Canada’s biggest business fiascos at Clairtone and then rebounded to build the world’s largest gold mining company  has died at the age of 90 in Toronto.An earlier version of a web summary with this article misstated the name of the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower. He is Christopher Wylie  not Andrew Wylie.A native of Windsor  Ontario  Ian Austen was educated in Toronto  lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so  please subscribe to the email newsletter version.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  5:00 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate.The 2016 internal memo  titled "The Ugly " was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it  Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified " even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook.Bosworth  who goes by "Boz " has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously  he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger  its news feed and groups.Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally  and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better."AdvertisementIn a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed  CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things " but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We've never believed the ends justify the means " Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year."Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals  including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections.AdvertisementFacebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it  saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
MENLO PARK  Calif. —  "We've made a bunch of mistakes." ''Everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times." ''Not one day goes by when I don't think about what it means for us to be the stewards of this community and their trust."Sound familiar? It's Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressing a major privacy breach — seven years ago .Lawmakers in many countries may be focused on Cambridge Analytica's alleged improper use of Facebook data  but the social network's privacy problems go back more than a decade. Here are some of the company's most notable missteps and promises around privacy.2007The social media darling unveils its Facebook Platform to great fanfare. Zuckerberg says app developers can now access the web of connections between users and their friends  a set of connections Facebook calls the "social graph."Advertisement"The social graph is changing the way the world works " he says .That November  Facebook launches Beacon   which shares what users are doing on other websites with their Facebook friends. Many users find it intrusive and difficult to disable. Massachusetts resident Sean Lane buys his wife a diamond ring for Christmas on Overstock.com  but Facebook ruins the surprise   an incident leading to a class-action lawsuit.AdvertisementIn December  Zuckerberg apologizes and enables users to shut off Beacon. "I know we can do better " he says .2008Facebook launches Facebook Connect   aiming to correct Beacon's mistakes by requiring users to take deliberate action before they share activity from other websites when logged in using Facebook. More than 100 websites use the tool at launch  including CNN and TripAdvisor.2009Facebook announces "privacy improvements" after a yearlong review by Canada's Office of the Privacy Commissioner found that it geared its default privacy settings toward openness  failed to inform users their data would be used to serve ads  and leaked data to third party developers  including when their friends used apps. Facebook vows to encourage "users to review their privacy settings" but does not agree to all the recommendations.Beacon is officially shut down  settling Lane's class action lawsuit.The American Civil Liberties Union warns people that Facebook's default settings mean that when a friend uses an app or takes a quiz  the quiz- or app-maker can peer into your profile  even if you've made it private.2010App-makers exhibit a sophisticated grasp of data they can scoop from Facebook's social graph.The Wall Street Journal reports that many popular apps are transmitting personalized Facebook data to dozens of advertising and internet companies  among them  Zynga's breakout game FarmVille. Facebook responds by shutting down some apps.Prior to the Journal report  Facebook says it has redesigned its privacy tools  giving its 400 million users "the power to control exactly who can see the information and content they share.2011The Federal Trade Commission reaches a consent decree with Facebook after an investigation of its broken privacy promises to consumers.AdvertisementThe FTC alleges  among other things  that:—Facebook made its users' friend lists public in December 2009  even if they had been set to private  without telling them.—Even if users limited data sharing to "friends only " data was actually shared with third party apps that friends used.—Facebook failed to verify the security of apps it put on a "verified apps" list.—Facebook promised not to share personal information with advertisers  but did.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook promises to submit to a privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years  and Zuckerberg owns up to mistakes.2012Facebook introduces new methods to help advertisers reach people in ways "that protect your privacy " including an encryption tool called Custom Audiences that lets marketers match the email addresses of sales leads to the addresses that Facebook users used to set up their accounts.Facebook also rolls out new privacy tools aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. Among other things  it narrows the scope of app permissions so they don't suck in as much user data automatically.2013Facebook shares two-year-old anonymized data on billions of friendships between countries with Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan and co-authors a research paper with him (published in 2015).Kogan creates a quiz app  installed by around 300 000 people   giving him access to tens of millions of their friends' data.2014Facebook says it dramatically limits the access apps have to friend data  preventing the type of data scoop Kogan and others were capable of. It also requires developers to get approval from Facebook before accessing sensitive data.Advertisement2015Facebook says it learns from Guardian journalists that Kogan has shared data with Cambridge Analytica in violation of its policies. It bans the app and asks Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to certify they had deleted the data.It rolls out "Security Checkup  " a new tool aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls.2017Facebook introduces "Privacy Basics  " a Frequently Asked Questions site aimed at simplifying its privacy controls.2018Facebook says it learns from The Guardian and other media outlets that Cambridge Analytica did not delete improperly obtained Facebook data and suspends the company  Kogan  and whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its service.Zuckerberg tells CNN that "I'm really sorry that this happened." He promises to audit app makers that gathered massive amounts of data prior to 2014 and to notify affected users. Amid calls for investigations in the U.S. and U.K.  the FTC begins investigating whether Facebook broke its 2011 consent decree."Our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again " Zuckerberg says.Facebook redesigns its privacy settings menu on mobile devices and says in a blog post  "It's time to make our privacy tools easier to find."___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  10:44 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  A Facebook Inc executive said in an internal memo in 2016 that the social media company needed to pursue adding users above all else  BuzzFeed News reported on Thursday  prompting  disavowals from the executive and Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg.The memo from Andrew Bosworth  a Facebook vice president  had not been previously reported as Facebook faces inquiries over how it handles personal information and the tactics the social media company has used to grow to 2.1 billion users.Zuckerberg stood by Bosworth  who goes by the nickname "Boz " while distancing himself from the memo's contents. Bosworth confirmed the memo's authenticity but in a statement he  disavowed its message  saying its goal had been to encourage debate.Facebook users  advertisers and investors have been in an uproar for months over a series of scandals  most recently privacy practices that allowed political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to obtain personal information on 50 million Facebook members. Zuckerberg is expected to testify at a hearing with U.S. lawmakers as soon as April.Advertisement"Boz is a talented leader who says many provocative things. This was one that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly. We've never believed the ends justify the means " Zuckerberg said in a statement.AdvertisementBosworth wrote in the June 2016 memo that some "questionable" practices were all right if the result was connecting people.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."That's why all the work we do in growth is justified. All the questionable contact importing practices. All the subtle language that helps people stay searchable by friends " he wrote in the memo  which BuzzFeed published on its website.He also urged fellow employees not to let potential negatives slow them down."Maybe it costs a life by exposing someone to bullies. Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people " he wrote.Bosworth said Thursday that he did not agree with the post today "and I didn't agree with it even when I wrote it."Having a debate around hard topics like these is a critical part of our process and to do that effectively we have to be able to consider even bad ideas  if only to eliminate them " Bosworth's statement said.(Reporting by David Ingram; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy JACK NICASMARCH 30  2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election  executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google ” said Sundar Pichai  the company’s chief executive  according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election  the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said  “Boy  that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat  the finance chief  said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Sixteen months later  Google’s parent company  Alphabet  has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones  as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites.Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents  Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected  tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now  many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests  even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues.AdvertisementThe relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday  accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation   passed by the Senate last week  that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users.AdvertisementYet quietly  the tech industry has warmed to the White House  especially as companies including Alphabet  Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Those include lowering corporate taxes  encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and  so far  ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals  with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really  really good for tech ” said Gary Shapiro  who leads the Consumer Technology Association  the largest American tech trade group  with more than 2 200 members including Apple  Google  Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton  Mr. Trump’s opponent  in 2016  but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment  they have found areas where their interests align  like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.“This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here ” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers  “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others ” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.”Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas  the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States.“You know  for $350 million  you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion  they’re going to build a lot of plants ” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook  Apple’s chief executive  to personally thank him.AdvertisementIn fact  Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working  according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not  however  publicly corrected the president.Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy  while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign.Michael Kratsios  the White House’s deputy chief technology officer  said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences  “in places where we do see eye to eye  I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.”Dean Garfield  head of the Information Technology Industry Council  a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms  said his members walked a tightrope  supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately  he said  “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016  Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos  Amazon’s chief executive  once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.
            The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon! Big tax shelter        
            Finally trashed by @realDonaldTrump. Will still reserve him a seat on the Blue Origin rocket. #sendDonaldtospace https://t.co/9OypFoxZk3 Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November  Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies  including Google  Facebook and Uber  filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue.Even so  tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president  with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting  Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella  Microsoft’s chief executive  also dined with Jared Kushner  the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law  and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home  according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters.
            Glad to visit @Apple HQ with @tim_cook. Thank you for your commitment to invest 350B in USA! #TaxCutsJobsAct pic.twitter.com/TasRA55smG Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September  tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon  Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure.But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill.AdvertisementTech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules  Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes  according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20 000 new workers  invest in new data centers and another domestic campus  and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2 500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.
            I promised that my policies would allow companies like Apple to bring massive amounts of money back to the United States. Great to see Apple follow through as a result of TAX CUTS. Huge win for American workers and the USA! https://t.co/OwXVUyLOb1 The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler ” with nearly 1 000 followers  has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president.“Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here ” said the “About” section of the page  which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month  the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war ” the page said.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month  Rob Goldman  Facebook’s vice president of advertising  played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome  including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly.
            The Fake News Media never fails. Hard to ignore this fact from the Vice President of Facebook Ads  Rob Goldman! https://t.co/XGC7ynZwYJ Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president  said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly.Two days later  Facebook’s policy chief  Joel Kaplan  distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments  and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions ” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Silicon Valley   Wary of Trump   Warms to Him.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 30  2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz  click on an answer  and the correct response will be revealed after you choose.


Last week  the question about the death of Sudan  the last male northern white rhinoceros  had the highest share of correct answers  with 93 percent. The question about Major League Baseball’s plans to play in London was the toughest; only 34 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The U.S. joined a campaign by two dozen countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain.As part of that effort  President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian officials from the U.S. as well as the closing of the Russian Consulate in which city?BostonMiamiSan FranciscoSeattleCrowds gathered last Saturday in cities across the U.S. and around the world to join student activists in protests against gun violence.After a mass shooting at a high school in Florida in February  the students hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue for the midterm elections.The title of the event encouraged participants to march for what?Our BeliefsOur FutureOur LivesOur RightsOur VotesNorth Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  made a surprise trip to China this week to meet with President Xi Jinping  the first known time that Mr. Kim traveled outside North Korea since taking power in 2011.The trip was reported by the state news media in China and North Korea only after Mr. Kim had left  but his presence in Beijing had been rumored after what telltale sign?The Chinese Air Force put on a special display Fanfare was heard outside the National People’s CongressMr. Xi announced a national holiday A bulletproof train arrived at Beijing’s central train stationThe U.S. Commerce Department announced on Monday that the 2020 census would include a question asking about what?Citizenship statusPhysical disabilitiesSexual preferenceSocial media useChristopher Wylie  above  testified before British lawmakers this week. For which organization did he work until 2014?Cambridge AnalyticaFacebookF.B.I.UberA fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo killed at least 64 people on Sunday  many of them children. Where did the fire occur? In an apartment blockIn a schoolIn a shopping mallIn a theme parkA TV interview with the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford about her alleged affair with Donald  Trump drew 22 million viewers on Sunday night. The interview appeared on which news program? “20/20”“60 Minutes”“Dateline”“Inside Edition”Municipal employees were able to use computers again on Tuesday after a sustained cyberattack against which American city?AtlantaCharlotte  N.C.MinneapolisPittsburghWhich dating app announced this week that it would change its software to encourage millions of its users to get frequent H.I.V. tests? BumbleGrindrHappnTinderThe sitcom “Roseanne” returned to ABC this week after a 21-year absence.The show got off to an enormously strong ratings start. About how many viewers watched on Tuesday?8 million18 million28 million38 millionThere was a cheating scandal in the world of cricket this week  with the revelation of a plan to tamper with a ball during an international series of matches.The captain of the national team for which country acknowledged concocting the plan?AustraliaEnglandIndiaSouth AfricaAdvertisementAdvertisementBy SHEERA FRENKEL and NELLIE BOWLESMARCH 30  2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook employees were in an uproar on Friday over a leaked 2016 memo from a top executive defending the social network’s growth at any cost — even if it caused deaths from a terrorist attack that was organized on the platform.In the memo  Andrew Bosworth  a Facebook vice president  wrote  “Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good.”Mr. Bosworth and Facebook’s chief executive  Mark Zuckerberg  have since disavowed the memo  which was published on Thursday by BuzzFeed News.But the fallout at the Silicon Valley company has been wide. According to two Facebook employees  workers have been calling on internal message boards for a hunt to find those who leak to the media. Some have questioned whether Facebook has been transparent enough with its users and with journalists  said the employees  who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. Many are also concerned over what might leak next and are deleting old comments or messages that might come across as controversial or newsworthy  they said.The brouhaha follows a period of intense scrutiny for Facebook and questions over what its responsibilities are to its more than 2.2 billion users. The company has been grappling this month with revelations that a British political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  improperly harvested data from 50 million of the social network’s users. Mr. Zuckerberg has since been on an apology tour over data privacy and is expected to testify before lawmakers in Washington.AdvertisementFacebook did not respond to a request for comment over employees’ reaction to the leaked memo.In the aftermath  some Facebook executives have taken to Twitter for a public charm offensive  sending pithy phrases and emoticons to reporters who cover the company. Adam Mosseri  Facebook’s head of news feed  in recent days wrote unprompted to a BuzzFeed editor and to its chief executive reminiscing and telling a story about his mother. He also wrote to a reporter from the Verge tech site about the songs played at his wedding reception.AdvertisementIn some of his tweets  Mr. Mosseri also defended Facebook. When writers from Vox and BuzzFeed tweeted that they noticed that stories critical of Facebook were receiving surprisingly low levels of traffic on Facebook  Mr. Mosseri jumped in.“We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us ” he tweeted.
            We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us.        Mr. Bosworth  the author of the 2016 memo  also took to Twitter. Late Thursday  he said he did not agree with what he wrote in the memo “and I didn’t agree with it even when I wrote it.” He added that “the purpose of this post  like many others I have written internally  was to bring to the surface issues I felt deserved more discussion with the broader company.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After BuzzFeed published the memo  Mr. Bosworth deleted it from an internal message board where it had originally been posted. In a statement to BuzzFeed  Mr. Zuckerberg praised Mr. Bosworth as “a talented leader who says many provocative things” and said that he and most people at Facebook did not agree with the memo and that the company had realized that it could not just be about connecting people.Facebook employees said on Friday that discussions were raging across the company regarding the merits of the post. Some called for executives to aggressively pursue action against those leaking to the media  said two Facebook employees  as well as for the company to do more to screen for potential whistle-blowers during the hiring process.At least one former Facebook employee  Alec Muffett  wrote on Twitter that Mr. Bosworth’s memo was responsible for his decision to leave the company.“Between overwork and leadership direction evidenced thusly  I could never stay ” wrote Mr. Muffett  who formerly worked as a Facebook engineer.
            Backplot: my "goodbye" posting to Facebook was in significant part in response to this work by @boztank  and subsequently garnered considerable support from Facebook's under-represented Engineering community  who genuinely do care about user privacy: https://t.co/GaoHLYoh17 “There are some amazing engineers working at Facebook  folks who care deeply about user privacy  security  and how people will use the code that they write ” Mr. Muffett said later in a message. “Alas this episode may not help” to achieve more transparent internal product discussion  he said.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @sheeraf and @NellieBowles.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Memo on ‘Ugly Truth’  Angers Facebook Staff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy DAN LEVINMARCH 30  2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Russia retaliates  migrants in limbo and celebrating Passover in Spain. Here’s the latest:• Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American Consulate in St. Petersburg  above  as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have attributed to Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal  who was attacked with her father  Sergei Skripal  “is no longer in critical condition.”_____• “Why am I here?” Two years after the E.U. and Turkey struck a deal to halt the flow of asylum seekers  thousands remain stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos.AdvertisementOne of our reporters visited a holding camp on the island  above  where she found miserable conditions and growing despair among those unable to move on  yet unwilling to go home.AdvertisementStuck in limbo  their plight reflects the enduring humanitarian toll of the migration crisis  which is expected to grow again as winter fades._____• Jeremy Corbyn  the British Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in decades  has galvanized supporters eager to get rid of the country’s Conservative government.But a mounting crisis over accusations of anti-Semitism has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership and forced many liberal British Jews to question whether they still have a political home in the party._____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.They’ll get together in the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House  above  meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.Mr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump  though no date has been set._____• In Denmark  breaking up is about to get … slower.A push to digitalize official services makes it easy for Danes to view public records and even get divorced online.AdvertisementMaybe too easy  at least in a country with one of Europe’s highest divorce rates.So instead of ending their marriages in a few clicks  couples with children will soon be legally required to wait three months — and get counseling. The change is a rare government acknowledgment that technological innovation can’t solve every societal problem.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Hacked: Data was stolen from 150 million users of the MyFitnessPal nutrition app  according to its owner  Under Armour. The security breach involved user names  email addresses and passwords.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors  ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will stand trial on influence-peddling charges  the latest in his series of mounting legal woes. [The New York Times]• Christopher Steele  the author of the notorious Trump dossier  provided a secret report to the F.B.I. asserting that a former Russian minister was murdered in Washington by enforcers hired by an oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. [BuzzFeed]What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Robert Mercer  the billionaire Trump donor behind Cambridge Analytica  secretly volunteers as a police officer. But he’s not doing it to protect the public. Rather  the badge lets him carry a concealed gun anywhere in the U.S. [Bloomberg]Advertisement• In the U.S.  the Fox News host Laura Ingraham apologized for taunting a survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland  Fla.  as at least four companies confirmed they would pull ads from her show. [The New York Times]• Protesters rallied in Ireland and Northern Ireland after two professional rugby players were acquitted of rape. [The Guardian]• Malala Yousafzai  the world’s youngest Nobel laureate  returned to her native Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there as a child by a Taliban attack in 2012. [The New York Times]Tips  both new and old  for a more fulfilling life.•Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick  delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• The Jewish holiday of Passover  celebrating liberation and rebirth  begins tonight. In an Opinion piece  a writer traveling through Europe explores the joy and sadness of observing this ancient tradition in Spain  a “land of Jewish ghosts.”• Last week we told you about Ata  a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now  Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad  and researchers have called the medical study unethical.Are you familiar with the term “March Madness”? Americans are awash in it  but for their colleagues abroad  here’s the short form.AdvertisementU.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday  setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament  also known as the Big Dance  is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field teams in the top division  compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season  68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939  and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s  stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players  coaches  fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so  it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year  ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas  Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago  a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.In the women’s tournament  Connecticut  Louisville  Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition  we have Australian  Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights  and here’s our full range of free newsletters.AdvertisementWhat would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »PAID FOR AND POSTED BY CTCA FOUNDATION MEDICINEWhile biomarker-driven drugs alone won't treat all cancers  precision cancer treatments  help oncologists fight cancer more strategically. Using genomic testing  doctors are better able to determine what mutations are driving the cancer and prescribe drugs that target specific characteristics in patients’ tumor cells. “In the last five to 10 years  genomic testing has changed our understanding of how tumors behave on a molecular level ” explains Dr. Justin Chura  director of gynecologic oncology at Cancer Treatment Centers of America in Philadelphia. “That is revolutionary for our patients.”
Amid the rapid growth of genomic testing  researchers are seeing the potential for precision cancer treatment to change the landscape for the diagnosis  treatment and prevention of cancer.“Most advanced cancers have already been treated with a traditional regimen  like chemotherapy  which tends to work in maybe 10 to 40 percent of cases ” explains Dr. Vincent A. Miller  chief medical officer at Foundation Medicine. "Treatments informed by genomic testing may increase the probability of improved short- and long-term survival  with less toxicity to the patient."Cancer Treatment Centers of America offers clinically qualified patients access to this cutting-edge approach  thanks in part to a relationship with Foundation Medicine  a molecular information company that performs genomic testing at its labs in Massachusetts  North Carolina and Germany. Foundation Medicine has developed a portfolio of genomic tests designed to accurately analyze a broad range of genes known to drive cancer growth. Using a single tissue or blood sample  these tests may help oncologists determine which targeted therapies  immunotherapies or clinical trials may be appropriate for their patients.Since the data on genomic mutations and corresponding therapies grows and evolves so quickly  it’s vital to stay up-to-date on the latest changes. That’s why organizations like Cancer Treatment Centers of America and Foundation Medicine do more than collaborate on the identification of targeted treatment options. They also work together to advance the field of oncology by hosting multidisciplinary tumor boards where experts on all sides can analyze new findings.
“These tumor boards combine the genomicists and clinical oversight from Foundation Medicine with the oncologic and pathologic expertise from CTCA to really interpret the data ” says Dr. Miller.
 
Foundation Medicine also contributes to this growing field by compiling the de-identified genomic profiles of tumors into a searchable database. This database serves as a resource for the medical  scientific and pharmaceutical communities.It helps speed the discovery of additional driver mutations and biomarkers  which may lead to the development of new treatments that target these pathways and biomarkers  and the initiation of evidence-based clinical trials. The pipeline for these new therapies is substantial. Currently  there are 26 immuno-oncology therapies approved around the world  but there are 2 004 in various stages of clinical or preclinical development  according to a paper in the December 2017 issue of Annals of Oncology.“We are standing on the slope of the graph where the information generated is doubling and tripling in a really short amount of time ” says Julia Elvin  an anatomic pathologist and senior associate medical director at Foundation Medicine. “This is an incredibly exciting time in oncology care.”
The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018
LONDON — Hundreds of people lined the streets of the British city of Cambridge on Saturday  breaking into applause as the hearse carrying the remains of the famed scientist Stephen Hawking arrived at a local church for a private funeral for 500 invited guests.Dr. Hawking died on March 14 at age 76 after capturing popular imagination with his writings about space and time.His book “A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes ” published in 1988  has sold more than 10 million copies and inspired a documentary film by Errol Morris. His own story was the basis of an award-winning 2014 feature film  “The Theory of Everything.”The actor Eddie Redmayne  who portrayed Hawking in the 2014 biographical drama  gave a reading from Ecclesiastes during the service at St. Mary the Great Church. There was also a reading by Martin Rees  Britain’s Astronomer Royal  and eulogies by one of Hawking’s children and a former student.AdvertisementThe service was officiated by the Rev. Cally Hammond  the dean of Gonville and Caius College at Cambridge University  where Dr. Hawking was a fellow for 52 years.Flags were lowered to half-mast in many parts of Cambridge to pay tribute to him.Dr. Hawking  who suffered from motor neuron disease  was known for his groundbreaking research into black holes and other phenomena.Even as he gradually lost control of his muscles  he traveled the globe to scientific meetings  visiting every continent  including Antarctica; wrote best-selling books about his work; married twice; fathered three children; and was not above appearing on “The Simpsons ” “Star Trek: The Next Generation” or “The Big Bang Theory.”AdvertisementDr. Hawking will be cremated at a later date  and his ashes are to be interred at Westminster Abbey in London near the remains of his fellow scientist  Isaac Newton.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  12:42 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  The life of renowned physicist and author Stephen Hawking was celebrated Saturday in English city of Cambridge  with hundreds of well-wishers lining the streets for a glimpse of the hearse carrying his remains to a private funeral.There was a spontaneous burst of applause outside St. Mary the Great church when the hearse arrived. The bells of the church tolled 76 times  one for each year of Hawking's remarkable life.Hawking was remembered as a brave man who triumphed over motor neurone disease by continuing his research into space and time even after paralysis set in and his muscles faded.Some 500 invited guests attended the funeral for Hawking  who died on March 14.Actor Eddie Redmayne  who portrayed the scientist in the 2014 biographical film "The Theory of Everything " gave a reading from Ecclesiastes during the service. There was also a reading by Astronomer Royal Martin Reese and eulogies by one of Hawking's children and a former student.AdvertisementHawking's family released a statement saying they chose to hold the funeral "in the city that he loved so much and which loved him."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Flags were lowered to half-mast in many parts of Cambridge to pay tribute to Hawking. The service was officiated by the Rev. Cally Hammond  Dean of Cambridge University's Gonville and Caius College  where Hawking was a fellow for 52 years.A private reception was held afterward at Trinity College.Hawking was known for his groundbreaking research into black holes and other phenomena. He was also the best-selling author of "A Brief History of Time" and other books and a pop culture figure known for  among other things  his appearance on "The Simpsons" TV series.AdvertisementHawking will be cremated at a later date and his ashes are to be interred at London's Westminster Abbey near the remains of fellow scientist Isaac Newton.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy SAPNA MAHESHWARIMARCH 31  2018
Amazon ran a commercial on this year’s Super Bowl that pretended its digital assistant Alexa had temporarily lost her voice. It featured celebrities like Rebel Wilson  Cardi B and even the company’s chief executive  Jeff Bezos.While the ad riffed on what Alexa can say to users  the more intriguing question may be what she and other digital assistants can hear — especially as more people bring smart speakers into their homes.Amazon and Google  the leading sellers of such devices  say the assistants record and process audio only after users trigger them by pushing a button or uttering a phrase like “Hey  Alexa” or “O.K.  Google.” But each company has filed patent applications  many of them still under consideration  that outline an array of possibilities for how devices like these could monitor more of what users say and do. That information could then be used to identify a person’s desires or interests  which could be mined for ads and product recommendations.In one set of patent applications  Amazon describes how a “voice sniffer algorithm” could be used on an array of devices  like tablets and e-book readers  to analyze audio almost in real time when it hears words like “love ” bought” or “dislike.” A diagram included with the application illustrated how a phone call between two friends could result in one receiving an offer for the San Diego Zoo and the other seeing an ad for a Wine of the Month Club membership.AdvertisementSome patent applications from Google  which also owns the smart home product maker Nest Labs  describe how audio and visual signals could be used in the context of elaborate smart home setups.AdvertisementOne application details how audio monitoring could help detect that a child is engaging in “mischief” at home by first using speech patterns and pitch to identify a child’s presence  one filing said. A device could then try to sense movement while listening for whispers or silence  and even program a smart speaker to “provide a verbal warning.”A separate application regarding personalizing content for people while respecting their privacy noted that voices could be used to determine a speaker’s mood using the “volume of the user’s voice  detected breathing rate  crying and so forth ” and medical condition “based on detected coughing  sneezing and so forth.”The same application outlines how a device could “recognize a T-shirt on a floor of the user’s closet” bearing Will Smith’s face and combine that with a browser history that shows searches for Mr. Smith “to provide a movie recommendation that displays  ‘You seem to like Will Smith. His new movie is playing in a theater near you.’”In a statement  Amazon said the company took “privacy seriously” and did “not use customers’ voice recordings for targeted advertising.” Amazon said that it filed “a number of forward-looking patent applications that explore the full possibilities of new technology ” and that they “take multiple years to receive and do not necessarily reflect current developments to products and services.”Google said it did not “use raw audio to extrapolate moods  medical conditions or demographic information.” The company added  “All devices that come with the Google Assistant  including Google Home  are designed with user privacy in mind.”Tech companies apply for a dizzying number of patents every year  many of which are never used and are years from even being possible.Still  Jamie Court  the president of Consumer Watchdog  a nonprofit advocacy group in Santa Monica  Calif.  which published a study of some of the patent applications in December  said  “When you read parts of the applications  it’s really clear that this is spyware and a surveillance system meant to serve you up to advertisers.”The companies  Mr. Court added  are “basically going to be finding out what our home life is like in qualitative ways.”AdvertisementGoogle called Consumer Watchdog’s claims “unfounded ” and said  “Prospective product announcements should not necessarily be inferred from our patent applications.”A recent Gallup poll found that 22 percent of Americans used devices like Google Home or Amazon Echo. The growing adoption of smart speakers means that gadgets  some of which contain up to eight microphones and a camera  are being placed in kitchens and bedrooms and used to answer questions  control appliances and make phone calls. Apple recently introduced its own version  called the HomePod.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But many consumers are also becoming increasingly nervous that tech companies are eavesdropping on them in order to serve them targeted ads  no matter how often the companies deny it. The recent revelations that a British political data firm  Cambridge Analytica  improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users has only added to the public’s wariness over the collection and use of personal information.Facebook  in fact  had planned to unveil its new internet-connected home products at a developer conference in May  according to Bloomberg News  which reported that the company had scuttled that idea partly in response to the recent fallout.Both Amazon and Google have emphasized that devices with Alexa and Google Assistant store voice recordings from users only after they are intentionally triggered. Amazon’s Echo and its newer smart speakers with screens use lights to show when they are streaming audio to the cloud  and consumers can view and delete their recordings on the Alexa smartphone app or on Amazon’s website (though they are warned online that “may degrade” their experience). Google Home also has a light that indicates when it is recording  and users can similarly see and delete that audio online.Amazon says voice recordings may help fulfill requests and improve its services  while Google says the data helps it learn over time to provide better  more personalized responses.But the ecosystem around voice data is still evolving.Take the thousands of third-party apps developed for Alexa called “skills ” which can be used to play games  dim lights or provide cleaning advice. While Amazon said it didn’t share users’ actual recordings with third parties  its terms of use for Alexa say it may share the content of their requests or information like their ZIP codes. Google says  it will “generally” not provide audio recordings to third-party service providers  but may send transcriptions of what people say.And some devices have already shown that they are capable of recording more than what users expect. Google faced some embarrassment last fall when a batch of Google Home Minis that it distributed at company events and to journalists were almost constantly recording.AdvertisementIn a starker example  detectives investigating a death at an Arkansas home sought access to audio on an Echo device in 2016. Amazon resisted  but the recordings were ultimately shared with the permission of the defendant  James Bates. (A judge later dismissed Mr. Bates’s first-degree murder charge based on separate evidence.)Kathleen Zellner  his lawyer  said in an interview that the Echo had been recording more than it was supposed to. Mr. Bates told her that it had been regularly lighting up without being prompted  and had logged conversations that were unrelated to Alexa commands  including a conversation about football in a separate room  she said.“It was just extremely sloppy the way the activation occurred ” Ms. Zellner said.The Electronic Privacy Information Center has recommended more robust disclosure rules for internet-connected devices  including an “algorithmic transparency requirement” that would help people understand how their data was being used and what automated decisions were then being made about them.Sam Lester  the center’s consumer privacy fellow  said he believed that the abilities of new smart home devices highlighted the need for United States regulators to get more involved with how consumer data was collected and used.“A lot of these technological innovations can be very good for consumers ” he said. “But it’s not the responsibility of consumers to protect themselves from these products any more than it’s their responsibility to protect themselves from the safety risks in food and drugs. It’s why we established a Food and Drug Administration years ago.”Because of an editing error  an earlier version of this article misstated Jeff Bezos’s role in Amazon’s Super Bowl ad. He was trying to figure out what to do when Alexa lost her voice; he did not fill in for her.Contact Sapna Maheshwari at sapna@nytimes.com or follow her on Twitter: @sapna.A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Hey  Alexa  What Can You Hear? And What Will You Do With It?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  10:20 A.M. E.D.T.
CAMBRIDGE  England —  Well-wishers filled the streets of Cambridge on Saturday for the funeral of British physicist Stephen Hawking  hailed by another leading scientist as "an imprisoned mind roaming the cosmos".Hawking  crippled since a young man by a degenerative disease  beat the odds stacked against him to became the most celebrated scientist of his era. His work ranged from the origins of the universe itself  through time travel and probing black holes in space.He achieved international renown after the publication of "“A Brief History of Time" in 1988.His coffin was topped with white "Universe" lilies and white "Polar Star" roses and carried by pallbearers from the University of Cambridge  where he worked. It was greeted by a large crowd outside the church who clapped as it was carried in.The 76-year-old scientist was mourned by his children Robert  Lucy and Timothy  joined by guests including playwright Alan Bennett  businessman Elon Musk and model Lily Cole.AdvertisementEddie Redmayne  the actor who played Professor Hawking in the 2014 film "The Theory of Everything" was one of the readers in the ceremony and Felicity Jones  who played his wife  Jane Hawking in the film also attended the service.AdvertisementThe ceremony included space-themed music composed specially for Hawking called "Beyond the Night Sky"  inspired by a poem and quotes from "A Brief History of Time" and whistling and "shh" sounds based on recordings of space.Astronomer Royal Martin Rees  a personal friend  read from Plato's Apology 40  "The Death of Socrates"  which talks of the search for knowledge persisting after death.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Confined to a wheelchair for most of his life after being diagnosed with Motor Neurone Disease when he was 21  Hawking's towering intellect and sheer persistence struck a chord with ordinary people  Rees said in an appreciation published earlier this month."Why did he become such a 'cult figure'? The concept of an imprisoned mind roaming the cosmos plainly grabbed people's imagination " he said."His name will live in the annals of science; millions have had their cosmic horizons widened by his best-selling books; and even more  around the world  have been inspired by a unique example of achievement against all the odds – a manifestation of amazing will-power and determination."Hawking's ashes will be interred at Westminster Abbey in June  among some of the greatest scientists in history  Isaac Newton and Charles Darwin.(Reporting by Henry Nicholls; Writing by Elisabeth O'Leary; Editing by Stephen Powell)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ELIAN PELTIERMARCH 31  2018
PARIS — A millionaire British hotel owner who is the father-in-law of Pippa Middleton  the sister of the Duchess of Cambridge  is under formal investigation in France over allegations that he raped an underage girl in the 1990s  a French judicial official said.The businessman  David Matthews  an owner of the luxury resort Eden Rock  faces potential charges of “rape on a minor by a person with authority over the victim” for events said to have taken place in 1998 and 1999 and for which a complaint was filed last year  according to the official.Mr. Matthews  74  was questioned in Paris on Tuesday by police officers who specialize in crimes involving minors  said the official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity in line with departmental policy. No further information was immediately released.A spokesman for Mr. Matthews told the newspaper The Telegraph that he “categorically denies the allegation and unequivocally contests the untrue and scandalous accusation.”AdvertisementThe hotel owner is the father of James Matthews  who married Ms. Middleton in May. She came to prominence at another wedding  in 2011: that of her sister  then Kate Middleton  to Prince William  grandson of Queen Elizabeth II and second in line to the British throne.AdvertisementThe older Mr. Matthews is a former racing driver who ventured into car sales and then hotels after a violent crash ended his racing career in 1973. In 1995  with his second wife  Jane  he bought Eden Rock on the Caribbean island of St. Barthélemy.The French official said Mr. Matthews had been placed under judicial control but declined to comment further.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In France  complex criminal cases are handled by special magistrates with broad investigative powers  who place defendants under formal investigation when enough evidence of serious wrongdoing has been found. Magistrates can either drop cases they believe have insufficient evidence to go to court or summon defendants to stand trial.The maximum sentence for rape in France is 15 years in prison  or up to 20 years if the victim was under 15.President Emmanuel Macron has said that combating violence against women is one of the top priorities of his government.The gender equality minister  Marlène Schiappa  recently put forward a draft bill  set to be debated by lawmakers in the next few months  that would among other measures declare that those aged under 15 could not legally consent to a sexual relationship.It would also extend the statute of limitations in cases of sexual assault involving minors to 30 years  currently 20 years after the victim has turned 18.Aurelien Breeden contributed reporting.Follow Elian Peltier on Twitter: @ElianPeltier.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »