AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  10:33 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon " while at odds with his own policy  was not a one-off: For weeks  top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out  U.S. officials said.Only two months ago  Trump's aides thought they'd persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended — not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated  but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February  Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS  he wanted American troops out of Syria  said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon  where officials have been planning for a gradual  methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria  the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria  officials said. The money  to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power  water and roads  had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.AdvertisementThe officials said the hold  first reported by The Wall Street Journal  is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.AdvertisementThe officials weren't authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.The State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community  members of the Coalition  and our partners on the ground to provide much needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad " according to a statement from the State Department.Trump's first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23  when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday  in a domestic policy speech in Ohio  Trump went further."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon  we're coming out " Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new  unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials  the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House's National Security Council for clarification.The White House's ambiguous response  officials said: Trump's words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed " said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway  a Pentagon spokesman.Still  without a clear directive from the president  planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria  officials said  and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Trump  who campaigned on an "America First" mantra  Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations  Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn't foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq  but with only limited success.AdvertisementYet it's unclear how Trump's impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster  both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria  were recently fired  creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton  a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president's thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump's impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup  several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces  who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey's security."This is a serious and growing concern " State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS  there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal  officials said  chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel  America's closest Mideast ally  and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies  including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah  inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity  and especially against Tehran's desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia  which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France  which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon " Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up  the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria  the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months  the officials said.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  12:38 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A British soldier killed by a roadside bomb in Syria was named as Sergeant Matt Tonroe of the Parachute Regiment  Britain's defense ministry said.He was the first British soldier to be killed in Syria fighting Islamic State militants."Tonroe  from the 3st Battalion of the Parachute Regiment  was tragically killed in action whilst on duty in the Middle East on the 29th March 2018 " the ministry said in a statement.The 33-year-old had been attached to U.S. forces in an operation against Islamic State. A U.S. soldier was killed alongside him by the improvised bomb.(Reporting by Elisabeth O'Leary  Editing by Angus MacSwan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  8:08 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there  the Wall Street Journal reported  citing officials.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report noting that Washington had recently committed an additional $200 million to support early recovery efforts in Syria  the Journal reported.The decision is in line with Trump's declaration on Thursday when he said that America would exit Syria  according to officials  the Journal reported.An additional aid of $200 million was pledged by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February in Kuwait at a meeting of the global coalition against Islamic State.(Reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  7:54 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The American service member killed this week by a roadside bomb in northern Syria was a 36-year-old Army soldier from Texas  the Defense Department said Saturday.Master Sgt. Jonathan J. Dunbar  of Austin  died Friday as a result of injuries suffered when an improvised explosive device detonated near his patrol in Manbij — not far from the border with Turkey — during an operation against the Islamic State group  officials said.A British armed forces member also was killed and five other people were wounded in Thursday's bombing— a rare attack since the U.S.-led coalition sent troops into the country."Coalition forces  in an advise  assist and accompany capacity with our partners  were conducting a mission to kill or capture a known (IS) member when they were struck by an improvised explosive device " the U.S.-led coalition said Saturday in a statement to The Associated Press.AdvertisementDunbar was assigned to the headquarters of the U.S. Army Special Operations Command in Fort Bragg  North Carolina.AdvertisementManbij  a mixed Arab-Kurdish town  is under threat of a Turkish military operation. Ankara says the town is controlled by Syrian Kurdish militiamen that Turkish officials claim are "terrorists" and an extension of Kurdish insurgents inside Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In recent weeks  Manbij has seen an assassination attempt against a senior Kurdish official on the highway outside the town and a number of small explosions. Authorities imposed a curfew after 11 p.m.  and in recent days barred motorcycles from moving around the town after sunset.Dunbar is the fourth American service member to die in Syria since the U.S. began attacking Islamic State group militants there in September 2014  according to the Pentagon's Defense Casualty Analysis System.The others were Air Force Staff Sgt. Austin Bieren  whose death was specifically labeled by the Pentagon as noncombat related; Navy Senior Chief Petty Officer Scott C. Dayton  who was killed by an improved explosive device; and Army Spc. Etienne J. Murphy  who died in a vehicle rollover.___Associated Press writer Sarah El Deeb contributed to this report from Manbij  Syria.___This story has been corrected to show that Dunbar's first name is Jonathan  not Johnathan  per new information from the Department of Defense.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWEST PALM BEACH  Fla. — President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria  two senior administration officials said on Friday  a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete. A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria  according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan. Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there. Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilise areas recaptured from Islamic State  the paper said. The funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State. The decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield  Ohio  on Thursday  where he said it was time for America to exit Syria. A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis." Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach  Florida  estate. "We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon " Trump said on Thursday  based on allied victories against Islamic State militants. "Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon  we're coming out " Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country  where we belong  where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign. While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria  U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Trump still needs to be convinced of that  said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting. U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels. Trump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking towards having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that " one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete  however  the official added. The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base. Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward  the official said. "So far he has not given an order to just get out " the official said. About 2 000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria. Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan  ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay. Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton  named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.  (Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton  John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio  Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  6:05 P.M. E.D.T.
AMMAN —  Negotiators in the last rebel-held bastion in Syria's eastern Ghouta reached a deal on Saturday with the Russian side to evacuate the wounded from Douma to rebel-held northern Syria  local sources familiar with the deal said.The agreement was reached by the negotiating committee that comprises both civic leaders and representatives of Jaish al Islam  the rebel faction in control of Douma  the sources said.The committee has been negotiating a deal to spare the city a military assault by the Syrian army and its allies who encircle it. They have threatened to storm the city if rebels do not agree to surrender the last patch in the enclave in return for safe passage to insurgent-held territory in northwestern Syria.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  5:26 P.M. E.D.T.
AMMAN —  Negotiators in the last rebel-held bastion in Syria's eastern Ghouta reached a deal on Saturday with the Russian side to evacuate the wounded from Douma to rebel-held northern Syria  local sources familiar with the deal said.The agreement was reached by the negotiating committee that comprises both civic leaders and representatives of Jaish al Islam  the rebel faction in control of Douma  the sources said.The committee has been negotiating a deal to spare the city a military assault by the Syrian army and its allies who encircle it. They have threatened to storm the city if rebels do not agree to surrender the last patch in the enclave in return for safe passage to insurgent-held territory in northwestern Syria.(Reporting by Suleiman Al-Khalidi; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressKOBANI  Syria — Two British detainees in Syria who are accused of being part of a murderous Islamic State cell denounced the United States and Britain as “hypocrites” and complained they would not get fair trials because they were reportedly stripped of their citizenship.The men  El Shafee Elsheikh and Alexanda Kotey  were part of a group with two other British jihadis that was nicknamed “the Beatles” by captives because of their English accents  officials say.The two were captured by Syrian Kurdish fighters in January in eastern Syria as Islamic State forces were routed and are being held in an undisclosed location  but they were taken to a Kurdish security center in the town of Kobani  where they spoke to The Associated Press.They refused to address accusations that in 2014 and 2015 they were part of the cell that officials said held more than 20 Western hostages in Syria and tortured many of them  including the American journalist James Foley.They are accused of beheading seven American  British and Japanese journalists and aid workers and a group of Syrian soldiers  and boasting of the butchery in videos released around the globe. The two said the killings of the captives were a mistake — but for tactical reasons.Many in the Islamic State  known as ISIS  “would have disagreed” with the killings “on the grounds that there is probably more benefit in them being political prisoners ” Mr. Kotey said.“It was something that was regrettable ” he said. He also blamed Western governments for failing to negotiate  noting that some hostages were released for ransoms.Mr. Elsheikh said the killings were a “mistake” and might not have been justified. But  he said  they were in retaliation for the killings of civilians by the United States-led coalition fighting ISIS.The beheadings  often videotaped  horrified the world soon after ISIS took over much of Iraq and Syria in 2014. The group also committed wide-scale atrocities  massacring thousands of Iraqi troops and civilians and taking sex slaves.Mr. Foley’s killing was followed by those of two other Americans  Steven Sotloff and Peter Kassig; the British aid workers David Cawthorne Haines and Alan Henning; and the Japanese journalists Haruna Yukawa and Kenji Goto.Mr. Foley’s mother  Diane Foley  called on the international community and United States government “to have the courage to hold these men accountable in an open trial where we can face them and they can hear all the pain and suffering they’ve inflicted on the world.”She said she opposed the death penalty for the detainees since it would feed jihadi “desire for martyrdom and heroic afterlife.”The two suspects’ detention has set off a debate in the United States and Europe about how to prosecute Westerners who joined the militants — as the Kurds pressure the West to take them back to relieve prison crowding.Mr. Elsheikh  whose family went to Britain from Sudan when he was a child  was a mechanic from White City in West London. He traveled to Syria in 2012  initially joining a branch of Al Qaeda before moving on to ISIS  according to the State Department. It said he had “earned a reputation for waterboarding  mock executions and crucifixions” while serving as an ISIS jailer.Mr. Kotey  who is of Ghanaian and Greek-Cypriot descent and converted to Islam in his 20s  is from the Paddington district of London.The leader of the cell  Mohammed Emwazi  was called “Jihadi John” after he appeared  masked in the videos  sometimes performing the butchery. He was killed in an American-led coalition drone strike in 2015 in the Syrian city of Raqqa. Another member  Aine Davis  was arrested in Turkey  convicted there in 2017 and sentenced to seven years in prison.The two detainees in Syria denounced as “illegal” the British government’s reported decision in February to strip them of citizenship. The revocation exposes them to “rendition and torture ” Mr. Elsheikh said.“I was born in the U.K. ” he said. “My mother was born in the U.K. I have a daughter there in the U.K.”Mr. Kotey said the fairest venue for a trial might be the International Criminal Court in The Hague. The citizenship decision was widely reported in the news media  though British officials have not confirmed or denied it  citing privacy rules.Both men seemed dismissive of the idea that they were part of the ISIS cell  depicting the allegations as created by media and foreign intelligence “so the world can say this is the bad guy and kill the bad guy ” Mr. Elsheikh said.He added: “No fair trial when I am ‘the Beatle’ in the media. No fair trial.”Bethany Haines  whose father  David Haines  was held hostage and died in Syria  told the BBC: “It shocks me that two individuals who have committed such heinous crimes have been treated like guests with access to the media and are allowed access to smartphones. As for them saying that their actions in Syria are regrettable is an understatement.”The men said they had been questioned repeatedly by American military officials and the F.B.I. The United States has been pressing for the home countries of foreign jihadis in Iraq and Syria to take their nationals for trial. Though Britain’s defense secretary has said they should not be allowed back into the country  officials had asked the United States for reassurance that the men would not face the death penalty.At the Kurdish security building  the men appeared to speak openly. Mr. Elsheikh was strait-laced and reserved  referring more often to Islamic texts. But Mr. Kotey often cracked jokes — when asked whether ISIS’ leader  Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi  was alive  he joked that some people thought that Elvis never died and that Tupac Shakur is still alive.They were unrepentant  however  about belonging to the group — though they said they did not agree with everything it did. Mr. Kotey said he did not think suicide bombings were permissible in Islam. Mr. Elsheikh said ISIS’ killing of a captured Jordanian pilot by burning him alive in a cage was “atrocious.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy ANNE BARNARD and HWAIDA SAADMARCH 31  2018
BEIRUT  Lebanon — When pro-government forces retook her hometown from Syrian rebels  Nisrine accepted the same surrender deal the government has offered tens of thousands of Syrians: a one-way bus trip to a place she had never been — the northern  rebel-held province of Idlib.Since Syria’s war began  the population of Idlib has doubled as it has taken in a motley mix of fleeing civilians  defeated rebels  hard-line jihadists and those like Nisrine who have packed up their families to ride the government surrender bus.But as government forces wrap up a blistering campaign in eastern Ghouta  Idlib is likely to be the next target. And this time  there will be nowhere else to run.“Maybe this is the last chapter of the revolution ” Nisrine  36  an Arabic teacher from the onetime tourist resort of Madaya  said in an online interview recently. “Syrians are killing Syrians. Nothing matters anymore. We decided to die standing up. I’m sad for the revolution  how it’s gone  how people called for freedom and now it’s gone.”AdvertisementIdlib  a small  conservative province on the Turkish border  is Syria’s largest remaining rebel-held area. One of the earliest regions to revolt against President Bashar al-Assad  it may be the place where the revolution that began more than seven years ago finally ends.TURKEY100 milesAleppoIdlibIDLIB PROVINCESYRIALEBANONMadayaDamascus/GhoutaMARCH 30  2018
The government has carried out scorched-earth airstrikes there with its ally  Russia  routinely hitting hospitals and clinics  schools and neighborhood markets.AdvertisementBut people are still coming.In recent days  more than 10 000 fighters and civilians have been bused to Idlib from surrendering sections of eastern Ghouta. They arrive traumatized  exhausted and disillusioned  often with children suffering from malnutrition after years of siege.The government has treated the province as a dumping ground for those it does not want in its territory  and paints the province as a nest of jihadists. But the vast majority in Idlib are civilians  including nonviolent activists who could face arrest and torture if they remained in government areas and who often push back against hard-liners in the province they believe have co-opted the revolt.Marwan Habaq  who survived the barrages in eastern Ghouta in a basement with his wife and infant daughter Yasmina  is taking them to Idlib. It is a tough choice because  as they have no place to live in Idlib  they will have to leave his wife’s parents behind and they will face more shelling. But if they stay  he is sure he will be arrested or forced into military service.“Two bitter options ” he said. “Leaving to the unknown  or staying within Assad’s hands.”But the move only delays the inevitable.“It’s a shame on the world ” said Mehran Ouyoun  a member of the opposition council in exile for the Damascus suburbs  which meets in Turkey. “If you approve the war crime of forced evacuation  at least make sure these people don’t suffer again and again.”Idlib was once controlled by a patchwork of clashing insurgents  some led by American-backed army defectors calling for a civil state. Others  including an Al Qaeda affiliate  welcomed foreign fighters and espoused a spectrum of Islamist ideologies. But hard-liners have seized the upper hand  playing into the government’s portrayal of the region even as they create tensions with residents who oppose them.AdvertisementAs they struggle to survive  many residents are caught between government attacks from the sky and the overbearing rule of extremist factions that dominate on the ground.Nisrine joined the revolution at the outset in 2011  pushing for a secular  civil democracy. Like a dozen other Idlib residents interviewed for this article by phone and email  she asked not to be fully identified for fear of retribution from any side.She boarded a bus for Idlib last year after surviving a year of siege and bombardment  hoping that her son Abdullah  10  would not starve to death like some children had in her town  Madaya. At first  she was excited to be reunited with her husband  a former law student and rebel fighter who had gone to Idlib two years earlier.She did not regret leaving Madaya. After the government takeover there  her brother and brothers-in-law were drafted and sent to the front with minimal training. They died in battle.But Nisrine was troubled by Idlib City’s ubiquitous jihadist billboards  face veils and cafes segregating women and banning them from smoking water pipes. When she wears her usual head scarf and modest coat  religious enforcers lecture her for not veiling her face.One ultrareligious neighbor spoke constantly of fighting Shiites  never about building a new country. Eventually Nisrine lost her temper.“Why did you climb on the revolution’s back?” she recalled asking the woman. “I didn’t join the revolution to see this.”Her husband  who had been a rebel fighter back in Madaya  also struggled to find a way to keep fighting for a cause he believed in. After briefly joining two of Idlib’s main Islamist factions  he quit to become a paralegal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“They considered me an infidel ” he said of the factions  “and I considered them extremists.”AdvertisementBut the episode that shocked Nisrine most was the day her son  after a few months playing with other children in Idlib  announced: “I want to join the jihad.”Horrified  Nisrine decided to set up educational alternatives and start campaigning quietly against the recruitment of children into hard-line religious schools and rebel factions.She also helped open a chapter of an organization that provides psychological support and cultural activities.Umm Abdo  36  a philosophy professor from Syria’s largest city  Aleppo  takes a more confrontational approach. She fled to Idlib in 2014 for fear she would be arrested after government forces detained her husband.“I don’t stay silent ” she said. “I’m not afraid of death. Welcome  death!”She said she does not leave home without a gun.She could not find work in Idlib’s university; Philosophy had been banned as “polytheism.” So she became a traditional healer  treating mostly women  and found that their already limited freedoms had contracted further under the hard-liners who control Idlib.She heard from students brainwashed into calling their parents infidels  teenage girls sold into marriage. One woman arrived unable to speak. It turned out her husband had badly beaten her after she caught him cheating.With a degree in Islamic law  she started defending underdogs in Islamic court. She helped farmers defeat attempts by the factions to take away their lands. She won a divorce for a woman whose father had sold her to a foreign fighter who raped and beat her.“When we decided to revolt  it was against oppression ” she said. “But today we’re facing the worst oppression.”AdvertisementLife in conservative Idlib poses challenges for everyone from relatively cosmopolitan Damascus  but especially for single women.Rima  a former political prisoner from Madaya  arrived in Idlib divorced with no local family ties or male relatives to protect her. Few landlords would rent to a single woman and one evicted her when she refused his advances.“Even taxi drivers ask: ‘Why are you single? Why don’t you have brothers?’” she said.Recently local authorities in Idlib City announced single women would have to live in special camps.For Rima  the problem was solved when she got engaged. The catch: Her fiancé wants her to veil her face.“I will ” she said  “not because I’m convinced  but because I love him.”Fitting in remains a challenge  but there are few options.“Idlib wasn’t the best choice ” she said. “It was the only choice.”Anne Barnard and Hwaida Saad have covered the Syrian war together for six years.A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Syrians Feel Vise Tighten in a Holdout Rebel Province.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  3:47 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  An Israeli drone crashed in southern Lebanon overnight between Friday and Saturday  the Israeli military and Hezbollah's al-Manar TV reported."An unmanned Israeli spy plane crashes between the villages of Beit Yahoun and Baraachit " al-Manar reported.A statement from the Israeli military said the drone had crashed because of a technical malfunction. "The incident is currently being reviewed. There is no risk of leaked information ” the statement said.Israel and Lebanon's Hezbollah last fought a war in 2006. Israeli and U.S. officials say Iran is helping the group build factories to manufacture precision-guided missiles or refit its longer-range missiles with precision guidance systems.AdvertisementThe heavily armed Hezbollah joined the Syrian civil war in support of Assad in 2012  and has played a critical part in helping his government defeat Sunni rebels backed by the United States and its regional allies - Saudi Arabia  Qatar and Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Hezbollah has spearheaded a coalition of Tehran-backed Shi'ite militias that have deployed to Syria from Iraq  Afghanistan and Pakistan. Iran's expanding power in Syria has caused deep alarm in neighboring Israel.AdvertisementIsrael has mounted numerous air strikes in Syria against what it has described as Hezbollah and Iranian targets.Sheikh Naim Qassem  the deputy leader of the Iran-backed Shi’ite group  told Reuters in an interview on March 15 that Hezbollah does not expect Israel to launch a war for now in Lebanon but that it is prepared for one.(Writing by Tom Perry and Maayan Lubell; Editing by Catherine Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ERIC SCHMITT  HELENE COOPER and ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump  having this week signaled a possible withdrawal of American troops from Syria  has ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts there while the administration reassesses its role in the conflict  administration officials said Friday.The freeze on stabilization and humanitarian aid came as two members of the United States-led coalition fighting in Syria were killed — one American soldier and one British — and five others were wounded by a bomb in a late-night attack  the military said on Friday.The attack took place near Manbij in northern Syria  and is believed to have been carried out by remnants of the Islamic State fighting force  a senior American military official said.A statement posted by the United States Central Command  which directs American forces in the region  said “an improvised explosive device” detonated about 11 p.m. local time on Thursday.AdvertisementThe statement did not reveal the identities of the service members involved  how seriously the survivors were hurt or where in Syria the attack occurred. The American-led coalition includes about 30 countries  but only a few have forces on the ground.Advertisement“The names of the deceased will be released at the discretion of the pertinent national authorities ” the statement said. “Details pertaining to the incident are being withheld pending further investigation.”A statement released on Friday by the Ministry of Defense in London confirmed that the second soldier killed in the blast was British  and that the mission was to counter fighters with the Islamic State.Coalition forces have been deployed to Syria to fight  alongside Kurdish militia allies  against the Islamic State. But with that group largely routed  the seven-year civil war in Syria has entered a dangerous new phase.Two American allies  Turkey and the Kurds  who control parts of northern Syria  are fighting each other. And the Kurds and coalition forces are engaged in a tense standoff with the Syrian government  along with its allies — Russia  Iran and Iranian-backed militias.On Thursday  President Trump suggested that the United States could pull its approximately 2 000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” The comments surprised Defense Department officials who have maintained that some kind of American presence in parts of Syria may be necessary to avoid recreating the conditions that led to the rise of the Islamic State — and also to avoid ceding influence in the country to Russia.“Very soon  we’re coming out ” Mr. Trump said during a rally in Ohio. “We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”The suspension of funds for recovery efforts in Syria comes as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict there  a State Department official said on Friday. The freeze on funding was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There will be meetings on this next week ” said the official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a policy review was continuing. “Obviously  we  State  hope that this decision is reversed.”AdvertisementA National Security Council official explained the White House’s position: “In line with the president’s guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis.”Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had committed the aid in February in Kuwait at a meeting of countries who have joined together to defeat the Islamic State.Pentagon officials in the past few months have said repeatedly that a complete withdrawal of American troops could leave a void. On Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground ” they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.It was unclear how the death of the American service member in the newest attack would influence Mr. Trump’s thinking on a possible American withdrawal. Beyond that  the Islamic State remains in the eastern half of Syria  and Defense Department officials caution that suggestions the group has been completely routed understates the Islamic State presence in Syria.As if to demonstrate the complexity of the situation in Syria  President Emmanuel Macron of France sought on Thursday to position his country as a bridge between the Kurdish fighters and Turkey by serving as a mediator in talks — an effort that was rejected by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Mr. Macron told a delegation of that included a number of Syrian Kurds that France “honored the sacrifices and the determining role” played by Kurdish fighters in the battle against the Islamic State  which has largely been driven out of Syria  and he expressed concern about Afrin  the northern enclave where Turkey recently pushed out the Kurds.He stopped short  however  at least in his public statements  from offering to back the Kurds militarily. It was a similar balancing act as the one taken in February by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian  who when asked about Turkey’s incursion in northern Syria said that France had already warned that it was “not acceptable to add war to war” in Syria.Mr. Erdogan ridiculed his French counterpart on Friday  saying that he met with Mr. Macron last week and that the French leader was saying “weird things” that required Mr. Erdogan to say  “tough.”“We don’t need a negotiator ” Mr. Erdogan said. “Since when has Turkey had an issue of sitting down at a table with terror groups? Where did you get this? You can sit down with terror groups  but Turkey fights against terror as it did in Afrin. You keep going on like this. Who do you think you are that you can utter the word negotiating between Turkey and terror groups?”Eric Schmitt and Helene Cooper reported from Washington and Alissa J. Rubin from Paris. Richard Pérez-Peña and Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Orders Freeze on Syria Financing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:29 P.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday France had taken the wrong approach toward Syria  after French President Emmanuel Macron promised a Kurdish-dominated force that Paris would help stabilize the northeast of the country."We are deeply saddened by the completely wrong approach shown by France  which we hope is a result of misperceptions " Erdogan said.(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu; Writing by Dominic Evans and Edmund Blair)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — A British soldier has been killed by an improvised explosive device in Syria  Sky News reported on Friday  quoting a U.K. Ministry of Defence spokesperson.Earlier  U.S. officials said an American service member was one of two people killed by an improvised bomb in Syria overnight  the first coalition service members to die in an attack there this year. (Reporting by Larry King)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  12:53 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON/BAGHDAD —  A U.S. and a British service member in the U.S.-led coalition battling Islamic State were killed by an improvised explosive device in Syria  U.S and British officials said on Friday.They are the first coalition service members to be killed or wounded in an attack this year.Two U.S. officials  speaking on the condition of anonymity and citing initial information  said one of the people killed in the blast on Thursday blast was an American. They said the incident took place near the city of Manbij in northern Syria.Later  the British Ministry of Defence said a soldier embedded with U.S. forces was also killed. The soldier's family had been informed  a ministry spokesperson said.Earlier on Friday  a coalition statement said two personnel had been killed and five wounded in Syria  but did not provide their nationalities. The wounded were evacuated for treatment  according to the statement.AdvertisementThe explosion happened on Thursday night  the coalition statement said.Manbij has largely been cleared of Islamic State and is significant because Turkey  which stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin after an offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia  has repeatedly threatened to push its operations farther east to Manbij.AdvertisementAbout 10 coalition personnel have been killed in non-combat-related incidents since Jan. 1  including seven Americans who died in a helicopter crash in Iraq earlier this month.Islamic State militants continue to carry out bombings  ambushes and assassinations in Syria and Iraq despite the collapse last year of the cross-border "caliphate" declared in 2014 by their leader  Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi  whose whereabouts are unknown.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The United States says it has about 5 200 troops in Iraq  deployed alongside Iraqi armed forces. Some 2 000 U.S. troops are in Syria  allied to a Kurdish-led alliance that holds the largest swath of territory still outside the control of forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad.The American casualty comes a day after President Donald Trump said the United States would be leaving Syria "very soon." The State Department said it was not aware of any plans to withdraw from Syria.Senior officials have said there is a need for a longer-term U.S. commitment in Syria.Last year  U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said he expected to see a larger U.S. civilian presence in Syria  including contractors and diplomats  as the fight against Islamic State militants nears its end and the focus turns toward rebuilding and ensuring the militants do not return  .Mattis has previously stated that U.S. forces will stay in Syria as long as Islamic State fighters want to fight and prevent the return of an “ISIS 2.0.”(Reporting by Idrees Ali and Maher Chmaytelli; Editing by Larry King and Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:29 P.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  Turkey said on Friday that a French pledge to help stabilize a region of northern Syria controlled by Kurdish-dominated forces amounted to support for terrorism and could make France a "target of Turkey".French backing for the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF)  spearheaded by the Kurdish YPG militia  has angered Ankara at a time when it is fighting the YPG in northern Syria and considers it a terrorist organization.President Tayyip Erdogan said France had taken a "completely wrong approach" on Syria  adding that he exchanged heated words with his French counterpart  Emmanuel Macron  last week.The split with France is the latest rift between Turkey under Erdogan and its NATO allies in the West.AdvertisementTurkey has long complained about U.S. support for the SDF  among a number of irritants to ties with the leading NATO power. Last year it compared the German and Dutch authorities to Nazis for restricting pro-Erdogan demonstrations during a campaign for a referendum to give him greater powers.AdvertisementThe White House said President Donald Trump  who added fresh uncertainty on Thursday when he said that the United States would be "coming out of Syria" very soon  spoke to Erdogan on Friday "to discuss regional developments and the strategic partnership between the United States and Turkey"."The two leaders expressed support for continued efforts to increase cooperation between their two countries  to advance shared interests as NATO allies  and to work through issues that affect the bilateral relationship " a White House statement said.Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said the French stance was setting Paris on a collision course with Ankara."Those who enter into cooperation and solidarity with terror groups against Turkey ... will  like the terrorists  become a target of Turkey " Bozdag  who is also the Turkish government spokesman  wrote on Twitter. "We hope France does not take such an irrational step."Macron met an SDF delegation on Thursday and gave assurances of French support to stabilize northern Syria. A presidential source later said France could increase its military contribution to the U.S.-led coalition which - alongside the  SDF - is fighting Islamic State in Syria.The United States has 2 000 troops in SDF-held territory  and France also has some troops there as part of the coalition.Ankara considers the YPG fighters in the SDF to be an extension of Kurdish militants who have waged a decades-old insurgency in southeast Turkey.AdvertisementTurkish forces drove the YPG from the northwestern Syrian town of Afrin nearly two weeks ago and Erdogan says Ankara is preparing to extend operations along hundreds of miles of border  including areas where the American forces are deployed.The Afrin operation has already drawn international criticism  notably from Macron. Ankara  meanwhile  has said it expects its allies to move their troops out of the way of a Turkish advance."We have no intention to harm soldiers of allied nations  but we cannot allow terrorists to roam freely (in northern Syria) " Erdogan said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.One U.S. service member and one other member of the U.S.-led coalition were killed by a bomb in Syria overnight  the first to die in an attack this year.TRUMP SURPRISETrump's remark on Thursday that the United States would be "coming out of Syria" appeared to take his own administration by surprise.U.S. officials have said in recent months that Washington planned to keep an open-ended presence in northern Syria  to support stability in the SDF-controlled region  prevent any Islamic State resurgence and counter Iranian influence.SDF spokesman Kino Gabriel said the force had not been informed of any U.S. withdrawal plan."Our work and coordination (with the coalition) is continuing " Gabriel told Reuters in a written message.Asked whether U.S. forces had been informed of a decision to withdraw or were preparing to do so  a spokesman for the coalition said he would not comment on future operations.A PYD member in Paris said Macron had promised at Thursday's meeting with the SDF to send more troops to northern Syria  provide humanitarian assistance and push a diplomatic solution.AdvertisementThe French presidency did not confirm that Macron had pledged more troops  but the presidential source said France could bolster its military intervention in Syria "within the existing framework" of the U.S.-led coalition.The presidency also said Macron was offering to mediate between Turkey and the SDF - a suggestion Erdogan dismissed."Do not engage in things beyond you  we do not need a mediator " he said  responding to the French offer in remarks to members of his ruling AK Party in Ankara. "Who are you to speak of mediation between Turkey and a terrorist organization?"Accusing Paris of appeasing terrorism  he said Macron would be held accountable for his policy by his own people."We hope France doesn't come to us for help when the terrorists running from Syria and Iraq fill their country after being encouraged by their policy " he said.Erdogan spoke last week with Macron about the French president's criticism of Turkey's Afrin campaign."He was saying weird things and so  even if it was a bit high-octane  I had to tell him some things " Erdogan said. "It is not anyone's place to portray our armed forces as something we do not find acceptable."(Additional reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier in Paris  Tom Perry in Beirut  Maher Chmaytelli in Baghdad and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Writing by Dominic Evans; Editing by Peter Graff and Susan Thomas)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  6:29 A.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France could adapt its military operation as part of the U.S.-led coalition in Syria if it deems it useful to achieve its objectives in the fight against Islamic State  a French presidential source said on Friday."If the president felt that  in order to achieve our goals against Islamic State  we needed a moment to adapt our military intervention  then we should do it  but it would be within the existing framework " the source said.(Reporting by Marine Pennetier; writing by John Irish; editing by Richard Lough)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  9:48 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  One of the personnel killed with an improvised explosive device in Syria on Thursday was a U.S. service member  two U.S. officials told Reuters.On Friday  the coalition fighting Islamic State said in a statement that two personnel from the coalition had been killed  without giving the nationalities.Two U.S. officials  speaking on the condition of anonymity and citing initial information  said one of the personnel was American and the incident took place near the Syrian city of Manbij. They declined to say which country the other individual was from.(Reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by Andrea Ricci)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  11:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon " while at odds with his own policy  was not a one-off: For weeks  top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out  U.S. officials said.Only two months ago  Trump's aides thought they'd persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended — not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated  but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February  Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS  he wanted American troops out of Syria  said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon  where officials have been planning for a gradual  methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.The officials weren't authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria  the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria  officials said. The money  to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power  water and roads  had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.AdvertisementThe officials said the hold  first reported by The Wall Street Journal  is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.AdvertisementThe State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community  members of the Coalition  and our partners on the ground to provide needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad " according to a statement from the Department.Trump's first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23  when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday  in a domestic policy speech in Ohio  Trump went further."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon  we're coming out " Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new  unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials  the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House's National Security Council for clarification.The White House's ambiguous response  officials said: Trump's words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed " said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway  a Pentagon spokesman.Still  without a clear directive from the president  planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria  officials said  and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Trump  who campaigned on an "America First" mantra  Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations  Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn't foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq  but with only limited success.AdvertisementYet it's unclear how Trump's impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster  both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria  were recently fired  creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton  a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president's thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump's impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup  several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces  who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey's security."This is a serious and growing concern " State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS  there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal  officials said  chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel  America's closest Mideast ally  and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies  including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah  inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity  and especially against Tehran's desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia  which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France  which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon " Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up  the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria  the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months  the officials said.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  11:38 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria  two senior administration officials said on Friday  a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria  according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilize areas recaptured from Islamic State  the paper said.AdvertisementThe funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.AdvertisementThe decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield  Ohio  on Thursday  where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach  Florida  estate."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon " Trump said on Thursday  based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon  we're coming out " Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country  where we belong  where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria  U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump still needs to be convinced of that  said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.AdvertisementTrump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking toward having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that " one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete  however  the official added.The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward  the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out " the official said. About 2 000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan  ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton  named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton  John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio   Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:44 A.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France could increase its military presence to help a U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State in Syria and warned that a Turkish advance on a town controlled by Kurdish-backed militias would be "unacceptable"  a presidential source said on Friday.President Emmanuel Macron has been criticised at home for his response to a Turkish operation against the YPG militia  with opponents saying he has abandoned the Kurds.The YPG militia makes up a large portion of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF)  which have been at the forefront of the coalition's strategy to defeat the hard-line militants.After Macron's meeting on Thursday with an SDF delegation that included the YPG  its political arm the PYD  and Christian and Arab officials  a senior Kurdish official said Macron had promised to send more troops to the area as part of the coalition's efforts  provide humanitarian assistance and "mediate" between the Kurds and Ankara.AdvertisementThat drew a furious response from NATO ally Turkey  which considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state within Turkey.AdvertisementSpeaking to reporters to clarify the Kurdish comments  a French presidential source said Paris had seen a resurgence of Islamic State in northeast Syria and would continue its fight against the group with the SDF."France doesn't foresee any new military operation on the ground in northern Syria outside of the international coalition " the source said."(But) if the president felt that  in order to achieve our goals against Islamic State  we needed a moment to bolster our military intervention  then we should do it  but it would be within the existing framework " the source said  without elaborating.A senior Turkish official had said on Friday a French pledge to help stabilise a region of northern Syria controlled by Kurdish-dominated forces amounted to support for terrorism and could make France a "target of Turkey".Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Macron had said in December he expected the campaign against Islamic State in Syria to be completed in February.Asked about comments by U.S. President Donald Trump that he might disengage from Syria "very soon"  the source said Paris had at this stage not received any official request to send reinforcements.France  like the United States  has already extended arms and training to the YPG-led militia in the fight against Islamic State  and has dozens of special forces based in the region  which has infuriated Turkey.Turkey stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week  and has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to the SDF-controlled Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.AdvertisementMacron's office on Thursday said the young leader had offered to mediate between the Turks and the SDF  which it said had distanced itself from the PKK."We will continue the dialogue with Turkey  it is an important and essential partner to find a solution to the Syrian civil war " the source said  responding to a barrage of angry rhetoric on Friday from Ankara.However  he warned that any military advance from Turkey to Manbij would be "unacceptable".(Reporting by Marine Pennetier; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by Luke Baker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  12:32 P.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura on Thursday that refugees could begin returning to Syria's eastern Ghouta on Sunday or Monday  RIA news agency reported.(Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:45 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France has offered to mediate between Turkey and the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces  and assured the SDF of Paris' support in stabilizing northern Syria  President Emmanuel Macron's office said on Thursday.Speaking after Macron met a delegation from northern Syria that included the Kurdish YPG militia  Khaled Eissa  a Kurdish official based in Paris  said Macron had promised to send French troops to Manbij to support the fight against Islamic State and dissuade Turkey from advancing on the town.The president's office declined to comment on that.(Reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  2:27 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russia's defense ministry said on Thursday nearly 5 300 rebels and members of their families left Syria's eastern Ghouta enclave on Wednesday  news agencies reported.Rebels left the town of Arbeen for the northern province of Idlib  according to the Centre for Reconciliation in Syria  a body run by the ministry.(Reporting by Denis Pinchuk; Writing by Andrey Ostroukh; editing by John Stonestreet)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  2:30 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The Syrian government has given a final  three-day ultimatum to the largest rebel group in the enclave of eastern Ghouta to leave the last remaining rebel-held town in the area  state TV reported on Thursday.According to the TV report  the 72-hour deadline began on Wednesday night.Talks have been deadlocked for days between the Army of Islam group  which controls the Syrian town of Douma  just outside of Damascus  and Russian mediators.The Syrian government and its Russian backers have insisted that Army of Islam members leave the area for northern Syria.Army of Islam spokesman Ammar al-Hassan said the government is insisting that the group's fighters move north but that they have rejected such demands.AdvertisementPro-government media have warned of an all-out offensive on Douma if the rebels don't withdraw.In Moscow  the Russian defense minister said Syrian rebels attempted to put dozens of suicide attackers on buses evacuating residents from Damascus' eastern suburbs.AdvertisementSergei Shoigu said during Thursday's meeting with visiting U.N. envoy to Syria Staffan de Mistura that the Russian military received a tip about the planned attacks from locals in eastern Ghouta and disarmed the would-be attackers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Shoigu said the military found seven belts packed with explosives for suicide missions on Monday  another 32 on Tuesday and nine on Wednesday."It's easy to imagine what would happen if those suicide attackers blew themselves up on the buses carrying women and children " Shoigu added.He said that 130 000 civilians and 11 000 rebels have so far left eastern Ghouta over the past two weeks.De Mistura  who also met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov  said after their talks that it is essential to ensure the safety of civilians being evacuated from eastern Ghouta.He noted that he had discussed provisions for the U.N. humanitarian assistance in eastern Ghouta and other regions of Syria. De Mistura also emphasized the need to give a new impulse to the talks on the political settlement in Syria.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  6:21 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France's president on Thursday assured the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) of Paris' support to stabilise northeastern Syria against Islamic State  and Kurdish officials said he had committed to sending troops to the region.Emmanuel Macron has been criticized at home over his response to a Turkish military operation against YPG militants. The group makes up a large portion of the SDF  which have been at the forefront of the U.S.-led coalition's strategy to defeat the hard-line militants.Macron met earlier for the first time with a delegation that included the YPG  which Turkey is trying to sweep away from its border  its political arm the PYD  and Christian and Arab officials."The president ... paid tribute to the sacrifices and the determining role of the SDF in the fight against Daesh " Macron's office said in a statement.Advertisement"He assured the SDF of France's support for the stabilization of the security zone in the north-east of Syria  within the framework of an inclusive and balanced governance  to prevent any resurgence of Islamic State."AdvertisementFormer president Francois Hollande  who originally approved French support for the Kurds  bemoaned on March 23 Macron's Syria policy  in particular his attitude to the YPG  accusing him of abandoning them.Ankara considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state within Turkey.France  like the United States  has extended arms and training to the YPG-led militia in the fight against Islamic State  and has dozens of special forces based in the region  which has infuriated Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkey stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week  and has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.Speaking to Reuters after the meeting with Macron  Khaled Eissa  a PYD member who represents the northern Syria region in Paris  said Macron had promised to send more troops to the area  provide humanitarian assistance and push a diplomatic solution."There will be reinforcements to help secure from attacks by Islamic State and stop a foreign aggression " he said  referring to Turkey. "It's message that this irresponsible action from the Islamists in Ankara stops."The French presidency declined to comment on whether Paris was sending troops. However  it said in the statement that Macron was offering to mediate between the two sides given that the SDF had distanced itself from the PKK."Acknowledging the commitment of the SDF to have no operational link with this terrorist group ... he (Macron) hopes that a dialogue could be established between the FDS and Turkey with France and the international community's help " it said.Macron spoke with U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday about the situation in northern Syria.(Reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier; Editing by Robin Pomeroy  Toni Reinhold)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  7:39 A.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  An association representing Germany's trades says the number of migrants doing apprenticeships more than doubled last year.The ZDH association said Thursday that in 2017 its members had about 11 000 apprentices from eight countries that represent the majority of refugees in Germany  including Afghanistan  Syria and Iraq.A year earlier the number of apprentices from those countries was about 4 600.The most popular apprenticeships include automotive technician  plant mechanic and hairdresser.Germany's apprenticeship system is highly regarded as a bridge between school and a profession  but a drop in the birth rate and a rise in people going to university has caused a shortage of apprentices in recent years.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  1:42 P.M. E.D.T.
MANBIJ  Syria —  A rowdy mob of over two dozen men on motorcycles streamed into the small square in the center of Manbij. They cheered and waved jerseys of their local soccer team  which had just beat the town's top club. The upset victory was sweet  and their wild chants reverberated  "My people! My people!"It was a moment of normalcy distracting from the tensions engulfing the northwestern Syrian town  which is at the heart of a tussle among Syria's Kurds  the United States and Turkey.Turkey has threatened to march on Manbij and wrest it from Kurdish hands after its forces won a resounding victory over Kurdish fighters earlier this month and took control of Afrin  a town 60 miles (100 kilometers) to the west.If Turkey goes through with its threats  it will come in direct confrontation with American troops who patrol Manbij alongside their Kurdish alliesAdvertisementAnkara and Washington are in talks to diffuse tensions  with a new round expected on Friday. But it is unclear what would appease Turkey  which says it is prepared to push all the way west to the Iraqi border to push the Kurdish YPG militia — Washington's only ally in Syria — away from its borders. It views the YPG as a threat to its national security and an extension of its own insurgents.AdvertisementManbij residents said the repeated threats by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have unnerved them — especially after the demoralizing defeat of the Kurds in Afrin. But many who spoke to the Associated Press during a recent visit also said they have faith the U.S. won't abandon them to face Turkish advances on their town.Manbij  a mixed Arab and Kurdish town of nearly 400 000  was liberated from Islamic State group militants in 2016 by the YPG fighters with backing from U.S-led coalition airstrikes. Now the town is bustling with trade and life.With Turkey's threats  the town has become a lynchpin for U.S. policy in Syria. Its loss would damage the Americans' prestige and military deployment in eastern Syria.Said al-Sayegh  a 33-year old teacher  proudly told of how he didn't leave Manbij after the IS takeover — even when the militants put a gun to his neck  threatening to kill him for refusing to grow a beard. And he said there's no reason to worry now  confident that Erdogan won't risk a fight with the U.S. and the Americans won't back down."They will stay. They have invested in it and they have an ally here " he said. "For the Americans  it is strategically important for the control of whole of eastern Syria."The U.S. Central Command chief  Army Gen. Joseph Votel  said Wednesday the United States recognizes Turkey's security concerns  but it also has a "key partner on the ground" in the Kurds  who made sacrifices in the fight against IS. "We have to continue to work between these two objectives to ensure that we can find an appropriate way forward " he told journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Wednesday afternoon  the town's center was buzzing with shoppers. Shop windows gleamed with new clothes  perfumes and trendy shoes. Women in fashionable headscarves — and some with veils over their faces — went up and down the commercial streets  as children were enjoying ice cream in garish fluorescent colors. A few buildings still showed the scars of the fight against IS; a women's clothes shop — named "Zara " in a knock-off of the international chain — has newly opened in a building whose upper floors are still a crushed wreck.Security patrols and roving  surprise checkpoints gave evidence of the high alert that local forces were on after a recent assassination attempt on a senior Kurdish official.AdvertisementDespite people's confidence  the YPG's defeat in Afrin weighed heavily on some. Turkish troops with allied Syrian fighters waged a two-month assault on the Kurdish-majority town in heavy fighting. There was no U.S. presence in Afrin  which was not a theater in fighting against the Islamic State group.Jamal Sattouf  a resident of Manbij  said his heart went out as he watched footage of Afrin residents streaming out of their town in the winter months  fleeing Turkish bombardment. It reminded him of what he and his family endured in the fighting to free Manbij from IS."I don't wish that (suffering) for anyone " Sattouf said. "We fear that he (Erdogan) will be here tomorrow ... People are afraid of him and no one else."But Mona al-Ahmed  wearing a faint pink lipstick and a black hijab  said she was adamant Erdogan can't disturb her life — again  after her world was turned upside down by the IS takeover in 2014. During their rule  the militants imposed their radical interpretation of Islamic law enforced with ruthless brutality. Women were largely forced to stay at home."We now feel alive again " she said. She was encouraged not just by the U.S. presence but also by the town's strong fighters and defenses."It is impossible for Erdogan to come here " she said. "We are safe and it is impossible for anyone to come in here."Ahmed al-Khadr  a member of Manbij's internal security  was guarding the rowdy fans of the Al-Ittihad soccer team celebrating their victory over their local rival club  Al-Sharif. He was dismissive of Erdogan  saying he'd made no moves despite all his threats."Where was he when Daesh was here " al-Khadr said  using the Arabic acronym for IS. "Why didn't he enter Manbij then? Why didn't he want it?"We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  2:32 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The massive Russian-backed Syrian military offensive in suburbs east of Damascus is almost over  with rebels holed up in just a single town after abandoning the rest of the eastern Ghouta enclave  Moscow said on Thursday.Russia and the rebel faction controlling Douma  the last Ghouta town still in insurgent hands  said they were still negotiating over the fate of the town. Moscow said it saw a chance of the remaining insurgents quitting Douma.Thousands of fighters have accepted Russian-brokered deals to leave other parts of the enclave in the past week with their families on government-supplied buses  giving them safe passage to other insurgent-held areas. Tens of thousands of other civilians have stayed behind to accept state rule  and tens of thousands more have fled across the frontline.The collapse of rebel control in eastern Ghouta  after one of the fiercest campaigns of the seven year war  has delivered the insurgents their worst defeat since they were driven out of Aleppo in 2016.AdvertisementAt a weekly briefing  Russia's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the "counter-terrorist operation" in eastern Ghouta had nearly finished  according to RIA state news agency.AdvertisementDeputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said there could be progress in talks with fighters from the Jaish al-Islam group  which holds Douma  RIA said.Eastern Ghouta  an early centre of the 2011 uprising against President Bashar al-Assad  was until last month the biggest and most populous remaining rebel stronghold near the capital.Its capture will cap a string of battlefield victories for the government of President Bashar al-Assad since Russia sent its air force to join his war effort against the rebellion in September 2015  making his position unassailable.A commander in the alliance supporting Assad  which besides Russia includes Iran and Shi'ite militias from Lebanon and Iraq  said on Wednesday negotiations with Jaish al-Islam had stopped.However  Jaish al-Islam official Mohammad Alloush  based outside Syria  told Reuters by text message on Thursday that talks were continuing  "despite reports of threats and provocations in order to put pressure on civilians".SHELTERSDespite some artillery fire on Douma on Wednesday  there has been no renewal of the army's withering bombardment and assault that stormed most of the rebel enclave in just a few weeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It split eastern Ghouta into three parts  and the factions in two of the zones agreed surrender terms a week ago  including the choice of accepting Assad's rule or leaving with light weapons for opposition territory in northwestern Syria.Daily convoys of buses have since made the 320km (200 miles) journey to Idlib carrying about 7 500 fighters and their families  30 000 people in all  according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  a Britain-based war monitor.AdvertisementAbout 134 000 other people fled across front lines from rebel territory in eastern Ghouta into areas held by the government  the Observatory said. Some 40 000 people remained in the towns it has recaptured so far.On Thursday  the United Nations resident and humanitarian coordinator's office in Syria said in an emailed update that 75 000 civilians had been received in shelters and 47 000 civilians remained in them. It described conditions in the shelters - mostly unfinished buildings  hangars or schools - as "dire".Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told the U.N. Syria envoy that displaced people could begin returning to eastern Ghouta in a few days  RIA said.Assad and his allies say their offensive was needed to end the rule of Islamist militants over civilians and to stop rebel mortar fire on Damascus  which state television says has killed dozens in recent weeks. The Observatory says the government assault has killed more than 1 600 people.Western countries and rights groups have accused the Syrian military of targeting civilian infrastructure and repeatedly using indiscriminate weapons including helicopter-dropped barrel bombs  chlorine gas and fire-setting incendiary munitions.The Syrian and Russian governments deny all that and have accused the rebel groups of fabricating evidence of such attacks and of killing people who tried to flee their territory  which the insurgents deny.(Reporting by Tom Perry and Angus McDowall in Beirut and Vladamir Soldatkin; Writing by Angus McDowall; Editing by Peter Graff)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 29  2018
RICHFIELD  Ohio — President Trump heralded a new trade agreement with South Korea at his first public appearance in nearly a week on Thursday  but then immediately suggested that he might delay finalizing it while negotiating with North Korea over its nuclear program.“I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea ” Mr. Trump said  immediately after celebrating the new agreement. “Does everybody understand that? You know why  right? You know why? Because it’s a very strong card.”He added  “We’ll probably hold that deal up for a little while  see how it all plays out.”It was unclear what leverage Mr. Trump believed he could gain in the North Korea talks by delaying the deal with the South. The move could be an attempt by Mr. Trump to prod President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to hold a firm line with North Korea when talks begin over its nuclear program. Raj Shah  a White House spokesman  said in a statement that South Korea and the United States had reached an agreement “in principle.”“The president  taking into account all relevant considerations — including negotiations with North Korea — will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States ” he said.AdvertisementBut Mr. Trump’s comments seemed to undercut a weeklong White House effort to promote the agreement. And they were in keeping with the at-times confusing tone of Mr. Trump’s speech at a muddy-floored training center for union workers here in this Cleveland suburb: His appearance was billed as an attempt to promote his infrastructure plan  but Mr. Trump addressed it only briefly near the end of his remarks  and said it was unlikely to pass soon.AdvertisementAfter a week marked by persistent scandals and high-profile staff departures  policy was not at the forefront of the president’s mind. Mr. Trump seemed intently focused on delivering his own progress report to supporters on a range of red-meat issues  including his zeal for improving border security  his promise to construct a border wall with Mexico  his administration’s efforts to roll back what he called “job killing” regulations and his thwarting of Democrats.“Really  I have gotten done much more than I promised ” Mr. Trump said. “We did a lot of things I didn’t even promise.”In the driving rain  Mr. Trump made his way to the training center  where he had been scheduled to sell an ambitious plan that would try to leverage $200 billion in federal spending to generate $1.5 trillion in total spending on projects such as tunnels  bridges and highways. White House officials had framed the event as a ramp-up  but this conflicted with the president’s decision to say he would push the plan to next year  declaring that he did not expect it to pass at least until after the November midterm elections.Also curiously  Mr. Trump spent little time on the trade deal struck with South Korea this week  which had been a win for his administration. That continued a relatively muted celebration: The announcement of that agreement’s details came not from Mr. Trump or his White House  but from South Korean officials; Trump administration officials unveiled the plan days later in a conference call with reporters.Instead  Mr. Trump disparaged a previous version of a South Korea trade agreement as a “horror show” and a “Hillary Clinton special.” He mused to the crowd that he might hold up finalizing the deal while he pursues planned talks with North Korea.“Certainly  the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit  would you say?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd. “We’ll see how it all turns out.”Mr. Trump seemed to veer off script in other areas as well. At one point  he suggested that he planned to pull American troops out of Syria  where they have aided a military campaign that has recaptured the vast majority of the territory once controlled by the Islamic State  or ISIS. “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS ” he said. “We’ll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crowd applauded  he added: “Very soon  very soon we’re coming out. We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”AdvertisementThe comment seemed in conflict with plans by his national security team to keep a small force in place. As recently as Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground” and had “drawn off slightly” to avoid accidental conflict with Russian troops  they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.Some foreign policy specialists said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Syria would leave a dangerous void. “If we’re pulling those troops out  we’re ceding the remnants of Syria to the Russians and the Iranians and the other actors  which actually I would argue would be a big victory for Russia ” said Jamie M. Fly  a Republican scholar at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.Mr. Trump eventually focused on infrastructure on Thursday  zeroing in on his plan to speed up permitting. But the subject and timing of the president’s focus on his plan  announced in February  are curious. Congressional Republicans have not shown much appetite for taking up the infrastructure package  and neither have Democrats  who prefer proposals with much more federal spending.Mr. Trump acknowledged some of that reality in his remarks.“I don’t think you’re going to get Democrat support very much ” he said. “You’re probably going to have to wait until after the election.”Administration officials have not mounted any sort of effort  in public or private  that matches the scale of the pressure campaign they employed before the passage of Mr. Trump’s signature tax cut package last year. Perhaps the most prominent advocate of the infrastructure proposal  Gary D. Cohn  recently left his post as director of the National Economic Council. His successor  Larry Kudlow  is less enthusiastic about increases in federal infrastructure spending.The administration envisions states  local governments and the private sector contributing the bulk of the funds  a recipe that experts doubt would result in anywhere close to the targeted level of investment.Richard Trumka  the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.  which has lobbied for a large infrastructure bill  said he was skeptical that the president’s visit would spur any action.“He and Congress didn’t blink whenever they shelled out a trillion and a half dollars in tax giveaways for the rich ” Mr. Trumka said  “but we haven’t seen a nickel yet for infrastructure. He can talk about it forever  but he’s got to do something.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the minority leader  echoed that sentiment on Thursday. “Democrats are eager to work with the administration on infrastructure ” he said  “but there’s been a lack of seriousness on this issue from the White House.”Katie Rogers reported from Richfield  and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Praise for Trade Deal  Then Trump Suggests That He Might Delay It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  9:11 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The U.S. State Department granted a visa to a man in Iran hoping to donate bone marrow to his U.S. citizen brother with blood cancer  obtaining a rare waiver to President Donald Trump's travel ban  the family's lawyer said on Thursday.Mahsa Khanbabai  a lawyer based in Massachusetts  said she received a call on Thursday from the consulate in Yerevan  Armenia where Kamiar Hashemi had applied for a visa in February after he learned he was a rare 100 percent match for a transplant that could potentially save his brother's life.The status of the visa application was "refused" on the Department's website but Khanbabai said she was told on the call that a waiver had been granted  two days after Reuters first reported on the case  and that Hashemi should make arrangements to travel to Armenia to pick it up.The State Department through a spokeswoman said it was unable to comment on a specific visa case.Trump's travel ban  which the U.S. Supreme Court allowed to go into effect on Dec. 8 after months of legal wrangling  puts permanent bars on most travelers to the United States from Iran  Libya  Syria  Yemen  Somalia  Chad and North Korea  as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted  attorneys and applicants say the process is opaque with few clear guidelines on how to apply and why waivers are  or are not  granted.AdvertisementSince the ban took effect  the State Department told Reuters more than 375 waivers have been approved  but declined to say for which countries and out of how many applications."It's unfortunate that so much effort had to go into getting just one  clearly urgent  visa approved " said Khanbabai. "There are thousands of people are stuck  also with urgent cases  with no idea what is happening."Advertisement(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  11:12 A.M. E.D.T.
DAMASCUS  Syria —  Aid groups need $150 million to provide urgent relief to a quarter-million people recently displaced by separate offensives by the Syrian government outside Damascus and by Turkish-led forces in the north  a top U.N. Syria official said Wednesday.U.N. coordinator Ali al-Za'atari said some 80 000 people have fled the government's offensive in the eastern Ghouta region east of Damascus  where shelling and airstrikes have killed some 1 600 people in five weeks. He said 50 000 were still living in shelters that have been stretched beyond capacity.Around 26 000 people had returned to their towns after they were recaptured by the government  said Khaled Hboubati  the head of the Syrian Arab Red Crescent  at a joint press conference with al-Za'atari in Damascus.The International Red Cross said Monday that children were emerging from eastern Ghouta with diarrhea  lice and skin diseases. It said many walked for kilometers (miles) on bare feet to reach the shelters.AdvertisementThe shelters were overcrowded  had no proper sanitation  and lacked toilets and showers  said the ICRC. It said it was working with the Red Crescent to improve them.AdvertisementThe Russian military operation in Syria said Monday more than 120 000 residents had arrived on the government's side of the front lines around eastern Ghouta. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said 100 000 had crossed over. None of the figures could be independently verified.Another 180 000 displaced Syrians are in need in the northern town of Tel Rifaat  after Turkish forces seized the Kurdish-controlled town of Afrin  said al-Za'atari.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He told reporters in Damascus that "finance is coming  but is still beneath the required level."A renewed push by the Syrian government and Russia to take the last rebel-held pocket in eastern Ghouta could drive tens of thousands more out of their homes and into shelters.Russia gave the rebel Army of Islam faction 48 hours from Tuesday to agree to leave the town of Douma or face one last assault that could kill countless civilians trapped inside. The government was amassing its forces around the town in preparation.The Army of Islam is the last faction holding out against the government in eastern Ghouta.If the fighters agree to leave  they will follow some 25 000 others — fighters and civilians — who have elected to board buses to rebel-held northwest Syria instead of reconcile with the government. Many say they cannot serve in President Bashar Assad's conscription army. Others say they cannot trust the government's notorious security services.The bus evacuations continued Wednesday. Some 6 500 people arrived in Idlib from the formerly besieged Ghouta towns of Arbeen  Ein Terma  Zamalka  and Jobar.Another convoy of buses was scheduled to leave eastern Ghouta later in the day  or early Thursday.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  3:35 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura will hold talks in Moscow on Thursday about the latest situation in Syria  the RIA news agency reported on Wednesday  citing an unnamed diplomatic source.(Reporting by Katya Golubkova; Editing by Andrew Osborn)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  6:02 A.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  A German national who was trying to cross into Syria from Turkey has been arrested by Turkish authorities over alleged links to Kurdish militants  the state-run Anadolu news agency said.In a report citing security officials on Tuesday  Anadolu said Patrick Kraicker  28  was detained on March 14 in the Silopi district of the southeastern province of Sirnak.During his questioning  Kraicker said he wanted to cross into Syria to join the Syrian Kurdish PYD  according to Anadolu.Ankara considers the PYD  and its YPG armed group  to be extensions of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) which has waged a three-decade insurgency in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast.AdvertisementAnadolu said Kraicker was later arrested for "aiding and abetting a terrorist organization".Turkey last month released German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel  removing a key irritant in ties between the two allies  but German officials remain deeply concerned about Turkey's deteriorating record on human rights and freedoms and its military operations in northern Syria.Turkish forces and their rebel allies launched an offensive against the YPG in northern Syria's Afrin region in January and took over the town of Afrin 10 days ago.Advertisement(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu; Editing by Ece Toksabay)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ANNA CODREA-RADOMARCH 28  2018
LONDON — A reconstruction of an ancient statue of a winged bull destroyed by ISIS is the latest public art installation to sit on a sculpture platform here known as the Fourth Plinth  on Trafalgar Square.The sculpture  by the American artist Michael Rakowitz  titled “The Invisible Enemy Should Not Exist ” was unveiled on Tuesday. It depicts a re-creation of Lamassu  an Assyrian statue that stood in Iraq in the ancient city of Nineveh  on the outskirts of modern-day Mosul  until 2015 when the militant group destroyed it along with other irreplaceable works of ancient art.Lamassu is a mythological creature known for its protective qualities. It has the head of a man and the body of a winged bull. Mr. Rakowitz’s re-creation is made of 10 500 recycled cans of date syrup; dates were a key export in Iraq before war shrank the industry.In an interview with The New York Times when he was shortlisted for the commission  Mr. Rakowitz described his work as “a placeholder for the thousands of human lives that have gone missing and can’t be reconstructed.”AdvertisementMr. Rakowitz  whose Iraqi-Jewish grandparents fled Iraq in 1946  is known for exploring Middle Eastern political themes in conceptual work designed to be displayed outside of galleries. In 2006  he opened an art installation in a store in Brooklyn exploring the politics of selling imported Iraqi dates in the United States.Mr. Rakowitz’s winning piece was announced last year along with the British artist Heather Phillipson  whose sculpture “The End” will occupy the plinth in 2020. The artists were among five contenders vying for two winning spots atop the prominent outdoor free exhibition space in central London.AdvertisementThe Fourth Plinth is a public art project now run and partially funded by the office of the mayor of London. The first sculpture to be shown there was Mark Wallinger’s “Ecce Homo” in 1999; other commissioned artists have included Antony Gormley  Marc Quinn and Rachel Whiteread.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Assyrian Statue Reborn In London Unveiling A reconstruction of an ancient.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 28  2018
PARIS — Officers of the French Republican Guard  riding motorcycles and wearing blue uniforms and white helmets  formed the honor guard escorting the simple dark car carrying the body of Col. Arnaud Beltrame to the Invalides in Paris for a hero’s memorial on Wednesday.President Emmanuel Macron gave a eulogy for Colonel Beltrame  and the gendarme was honored with a full military ceremony for his act of courage in voluntarily exchanging himself for a female hostage during a terrorist attack last week in the town of Trèbes  in southwest France  an act that saved the woman and possibly others  but that cost the gendarme his life.“To accept to die so the innocent can live  that is the essence of what it means to be a soldier ” Mr. Macron said. “Others  even many who are brave  would have hesitated.”Mr. Macron awarded Colonel Beltrame the title of Commander of the Legion of Honor  one of the highest accolades that France bestows.AdvertisementMr. Macron and Édouard Philippe  the prime minister  stood bareheaded out of respect for Colonel Beltrame  despite a chilly  steady rain  as did crowds of Parisians who lined the route the hearse took through the capital. Although most of the onlookers had not known the 44-year-old gendarme in life  they knew everything about his death.Laying aside his weapon on Friday  Colonel Beltrame entered a Super U market in Trèbes not long after Radouane Lakdim  25  had entered  wielding a handgun and a knife. Mr. Lakdim shot a customer and the supermarket’s butcher  and then took a female cashier as a hostage. Colonel Beltrame told him to let the woman go and to take him instead.AdvertisementFrench news reports suggested on Wednesday that Colonel Beltrame had at some point tried to disarm Mr. Lakdim  precipitating the shooting and lethal knifing of the gendarme.The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack  saying that Mr. Lakdim had been inspired by the militant group. The language used in the claim was similar to that employed in instances when the Islamic State has had no direct contact with an assailant.Mr. Lakdim’s 18-year-old girlfriend  however  who has been identified only as Marine P.  has been placed under formal investigation for terrorism-related charges including kidnapping  murder  and criminal conspiracy.Colonel Beltrame’s act prompted an outpouring of support and a sense of community from people of different faiths and backgrounds. A Mass held for him in Trèbes on Sunday drew not only Christians but also Jews and Muslims  who saw the attack at the supermarket as an assault on their community and on a place where they all shopped.“The light that Colonel Beltrame lit will not die with him ” Mr. Macron said on Wednesday. “He symbolized the French spirit of resistance.”Follow Alissa J. Rubin on Twitter: @Alissanyt.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  1:20 P.M. E.D.T.
BUDAPEST —  A Syrian man who is under U.S. sanctions for assisting the Syrian government received residency status in Hungary under a visa bond program launched by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government  two Hungarian websites reported.The investigative portals Direkt36 and 444.hu said on Wednesday in a joint report  citing unnamed sources  that Hungary gave a residency permit to Atiya Khoury  who the United States accused in 2016 of paying for fuel procurements for President Bashar al-Assad's government.The "golden visa scheme" launched in 2013  which guarantees temporary residency for at least five years to foreigners buying a Hungarian bond for up to 300 000 euros  helped Hungary raise funds at a time when its credit rating languished in "junk" status. Hungary halted the program last year.Orban's chief of staff Janos Lazar told a regular news conference that national security bodies had screened all those who had bought residency bonds.Advertisement"I'm sure that they screened everyone very thoroughly ... I have no doubt about that " he said when asked repeatedly about the report. He did not address specific details in the report.AdvertisementThe websites' allegation that certain Syrians were among those allowed to buy residency comes at a sensitive time for Orban's right-wing government which has been fiercely campaigning against Muslim immigrants ahead of an election on April 8.The websites said it could also be a worrying lapse of national security  if it were confirmed.Orban is seeking a third consecutive term and his party has a lead over the opposition in the opinion polls.The opposition Socialist party urged the government to clarify whether it let "criminals" settle in Hungary  and the opposition Democratic Coalition and LMP parties demanded more clarity on the issue.The Immigration Office did not reply to Reuters questions regarding the identity of the man who the websites said received his status under the bond program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. Hungary's intelligence agency did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment.Reuters could not independently verify the websites' report  which did not say when the Syrian man was given the visa.Direkt36 said it received a list of names from an unnamed source which included individuals from several countries  not just Syria  who took part in the visa program. Another source familiar with the administrative process confirmed the man and his relatives received residency permits through the program  Direkt36 said.It highlighted a second Syrian man who Italian authorities suspect took part in an international money-laundering scheme. Direkt36 said he was detained by police on Nov. 28  2017  in Hungary. Police did not reply to requests for comment.AdvertisementThe U.S. Treasury Department said on its website at the time when it imposed sanctions that the man the Hungarian websites identified  alternatively spelled as Atiya Khouri by the U.S. Treasury  operated a firm Moneta Transfer & Exchange and moved cash between Syria  Lebanon  and Russia on behalf of another man  and with authority from the government of Syria "He paid for fuel procurement for the government of Syria using Moneta Transfer & Exchange and received a commission for these transactions " it added at the time.It was not possible to contact the man.(Reporting by Krisztina Than; Editing by Alison Williams)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  2:17 P.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  Turkey will take action if militants do not withdraw immediately from Syria's Manbij region and areas in the country east of the Euphrates  Turkey's National Security Council said on Wednesday.Turkey  which stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week after a two-month offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia  has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.Expanding Turkey's military campaign into the much larger Kurdish-held territory further east  which President Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to do  would risk confrontation between the NATO allies who have been at loggerheads over the U.S. policy in Syria and other issues."In the meeting  it is stated that the terrorists in Manbij should be removed from the area  otherwise Turkey will not hesitate to take initiative by itself as it did in other regions " the statement from the security council  chaired by Erdogan  said.AdvertisementIt said the same approach also applied to the militants on Syrian soil at the east of Euphrates  without elaborating where that would specifically apply to  or who it might target.AdvertisementTurkey considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state  and has been infuriated by the support Washington has provided the Syrian Kurdish fighters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Council said it also expected Iraq's government to prevent the PKK operating in Iraq  especially in towns of Sinjar and Qandil. If that was not possible Turkey would prevent them itself  the council added."In the meeting it is stated that aside from Syria  Turkey expects Iraq to prevent operations by the separatist terrorist organization in its territory and if it is not possible Turkey will prevent them by itself " the council statement said using the term it applies to PKK.On Tuesday  Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said Iraqi armed forces would prevent Kurdish militants based in northern Iraq from staging cross-border attacks against Turkey during a phone call with his Turkish counterpart.(Reporting by Ezgi Erkoyun; Editing by Alison Williams)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  2:15 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Three years ago  the Army of Islam  one of Syria's most powerful armed opposition groups  held a massive military parade that included thousands of opposition fighters marching in formation and a striking display of tanks and armored vehicles at the doors of the Syrian capital.The parade  held in the town of Douma in the spring of 2015  demonstrated the Saudi-backed group's growing clout in the eastern Ghouta suburbs  which for years were seen as a potential launch pad for a ground attack on Damascus  seat of President Bashar Assad's power.The Army of Islam now stands alone in eastern Ghouta  its fighters facing a stark choice: Surrender or die.Haitham Bakkar  a Douma-based opposition activist  said the situation in Douma is very tense because it is unclear what will happen next. He said it was a question of existence for the Army of Islam fighters  most of whom are from Douma.Advertisement"If the Army of Islam goes to northern Syria it will be its end " he said.Douma  on the northeastern edge of Damascus  is the last rebel holdout in the eastern Ghouta region after thousands of fighters from the Ahrar al-Sham and Faylaq al-Rahman groups ceded their towns to government control under a deal brokered by Russia  a key ally of Assad.AdvertisementFor days  their fighters have been exiting from the southernmost pockets of eastern Ghouta  leaving in a fleet of buses  including the lime-green municipal buses that have come to symbolize defeat for the Syrian opposition as the government takes back control of cities around the country.The Ghouta fighters join tens of thousands of rebels from other areas of Syria  including Aleppo and Homs  who were driven out in the past few years following similar deals with the government that granted them safe passage to the north in return for abandoning the rebellion.With the help of Russian airstrikes  the army has waged a crushing air and ground offensive to recapture eastern Ghouta  killing more than 1 600 people since Feb. 18  according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Five weeks later  the eastern Ghouta region  once a cluster of around 15 rebel-held towns spread east of Damascus  has been overtaken by government forces  except for Douma  where the Army of Islam is headquartered.Rebels who have left eastern Ghouta so far have all gone to Idlib  an insurgent-held region dominated by al-Qaida-affiliated fighters near the Turkish border  where they either have a presence or good relations with Turkey.By contrast  the Army of Islam  called Jaysh al-Islam in Arabic  is home-grown and has no other strongholds in the country."Jaysh al-Islam is a very local phenomenon  emerging from the specific social fabric and Salafi school of thought of the Damascus countryside " said Faysal Itani  a senior fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic Council."More precisely  Jaysh al-Islam is a creature of Douma  and I don't know how it would survive outside it " especially in Idlib  where there is rebel rivalry  he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It is a resounding defeat for the powerful group that once briefly overran parts of Damascus and showered the capital with mortar shells. It is also a reflection of the diminished role of Saudi Arabia  once a major supporter of Syrian rebels.AdvertisementThousands of Army of Islam fighters — some estimates say around 10 000 — are now encircled in Douma  a densely populated town with a huge number of civilians who are terrified of what they see as a looming army offensive if the rebels don't exit. One resident said there are currently about 150 000 civilians in Douma  many of them internally displaced from other towns in eastern Ghouta  some of them staying out in the open or in destroyed buildings.This civilian pressure is weighing on the group as it negotiates with the government and its Russian backers. Several opposition activists have said that the Russians have given the Army of Islam 48 hours as of early Tuesday to leave Douma for northern Syria or face an all-out offensive.But the group's military spokesman  Hamza Bayraqdar  denied the reports and said Army of Islam fighters would never leave  describing the evacuations to the north as forced displacement."We are negotiating to stay  not to depart " he told Al-Arabiya TV on Tuesday. "The people who will leave eastern Ghouta will never dream of returning to their homes."The group has no good choices. Going to Idlib would put its fighters in an area dominated by al-Qaida  against whom it has fought pitched battles in the past. The Britain-based Observatory reported this week that the Russians rejected a request by some Army of Islam members to head to the southern province of Daraa. Such a move would bring the militants close to the Jordanian border  from where they would likely get assistance from Saudi Arabia.The rebels  meanwhile  are bitterly blaming each other for their defeat in Ghouta.After Faylaq al-Rahman began withdrawing from eastern Ghouta  Army of Islam members blasted their former allies  accusing them of helping government forces by drying out artificial swamps set up by insurgents to slow down the army's offensive."We had defensive plans prepared  but regrettably Faylaq al-Rahman cut the water that was brought from Barada River " Bayraqdar said. "This sped up the regime's advance."Asked about the charges  Faylaq al-Rahman spokesman Wael Olwan said: "I don't want to respond because we are trying to avoid their irresponsible statements."Olwan told The Associated Press that it is still not clear whether Faylaq al-Rahman's members will end up in Idlib or in areas controlled by Turkish troops. "I still don't know what our role will be " he said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  10:51 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  A journey that before the war in Syria was just a 15-minute drive from Damascus now took well over an hour  clambering over giant ramparts of dirt and rubble. Visiting his house in the town of Harasta for the first time in six years  Danny Makki couldn't recognize it."I didn't even know it was my street till I recognized the supermarket opposite the house ... no placards  no signs  just destruction " he said.The visit this week by Makki  a British-born Syrian journalist  provided a first look into the devastation wreaked in Harasta  where opposition fighters surrendered after a ferocious  Russian-backed air and ground offensive by government forces aiming to retake the region of eastern Ghouta on the edge of the Syrian capital.The rebels agreed to lay down their arms in return for safe passage to opposition-held northwestern Syria. As thousands of fighters were bused out  Harasta's civilians have been transported to government centers in and around Damascus  leaving the town  once home to a population of around 35 000  an empty  shattered husk.AdvertisementHarasta  on Damascus' northeastern edge  was among the first to rise up against President Bashar Assad's rule in 2011 and soon fell into the hands of the armed opposition along with other towns of eastern Ghouta. For six years  the army has been trying to uproot the rebels in grueling warfare with no decisive victory  until the assault that began last month. Harasta was declared officially under Syrian army control on Friday.AdvertisementThe area is still restricted to civilians while army experts work to clear explosives. But Makki  who is temporarily based in Damascus  was able to enter briefly Monday afternoon to check on his home  where his mother and grandmother lived before the war.Makki passed a water station on the edge of town that not long ago had been a front-line battle zone. He walked down dirt roads where tanks and military trucks kicked up clouds of dirt. The sky was black with smoke; looters were burning scrap to extract copper and other metals  the last things to be stripped from a town where over the past six years anything of value had been ripped out.At the intersection leading to his house  a row of buses blocked the road  he said. So he had to climb over 3-meter-high (10-foot-high) mounds of dirt that had been put up as barriers between the two warring sides. Then over under huge pile of dirt that had been in place so long grass had grown out of it  he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The streets were empty. It was like a ghost town " he said. He passed a cemetery where holes had been blasted in the walls."Not even the dead could escape this war " he said.His district is called Hay el-Hada'eq  or Gardens Neighborhood. "I just saw streets full of rubble so deep you couldn't even see the ground at some point " he said.When he spotted the supermarket and realized he was on his street  he found his apartment building. It didn't seem so bad at first sight. But then he went in and saw even the elevator was gone. The stairs were blackened  covered with rubble and glass. The apartment itself was a shell  walls blasted open to the street on three sides  floors piled with wreckage. All belongings in it were long gone  even the doors.Slogans were scrawled on the walls by both government troops and rebels  showing that both sides had occupied the house at various times over the years.Farther down the street  the destruction continued. There was a tunnel around 100 meters (109 yards) deep and 3 meters (3.3 yards) wide in the middle of a street."How are people meant to come back to this?" Makki asked.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  6:09 A.M. E.D.T.
THESSALONIKI  Greece —  The Latest on migrant issues facing Europe (all times local):1:05 p.m.The European Union's law enforcement agency says authorities have broken up an Iraqi gang that smuggled migrants and refugees into the United Kingdom from Spain.Europol says the gang took Albanian migrants as well as refugees from Afghanistan  Iraq  Pakistan and Syria to the U.K. using regular ferry services from northern Spain  hiding them in trailers  caravans and trucks that were waiting in restricted parking bays to board the ferries.The statement on Wednesday says Spain's Guardia Civil arrested seven members of the gang  including Iraqis  Albanians and Spaniards  in raids on houses this month.___11:15 a.m.Greek authorities say they are searching for a group of migrants who made an emergency call saying they were in danger while crossing a river marking the border between Greece and Turkey.Police and fire department officials said Wednesday an unidentified person called an emergency number Tuesday afternoon saying they were among a group of 15 people trying to cross the Evros river  which was swollen by heavy rainfall. Rescue crews have been searching the area near the Greek village of Praki but had found nothing by Wednesday morning.Hundreds of people attempt to cross from Greece to Turkey each week. Most make the crossing from the Turkish coast to nearby Greek islands  but many also attempt to cross the river  on the land section of the Greek-Turkish border.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:18 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed plans for a summit on Syria next week during a phone call with Turkish leader Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday  the Kremlin said in a statement.The summit is due to be held in Ankara  attended by Turkey  Russia and Iran.(Reporting and writing by Denis Pinchuk; Editing by Peter Graff)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  7:15 P.M. E.D.T.
UNITED NATIONS —  U.N. Security Council members vented frustrations and traded blame Tuesday over their unheeded demand for a 30-day cease-fire in Syria  with the U.S. envoy calling it "a day of shame."With a unanimous Feb. 24 vote  the council called for a 30-day break in hostilities "without delay" to enable humanitarian aid and medical evacuations as Syria enters its eighth year of civil war. But bombings didn't stop  though key Syrian ally Russia arranged five-hour daily "humanitarian pauses" in the besieged Damascus suburbs known as eastern Ghouta."History will not be kind when it judges the effectiveness of this council in relieving the suffering of the Syrian people " U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said  adding that it "should be a day of shame for every member."Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok  whose country holds the council presidency  called it "a humiliation" for the U.N.'s most powerful body to be unable to enforce an order for humanitarian aid access.AdvertisementSince the resolution passed  the U.N. and other groups have delivered aid to about 137 000 people around Syria — an improvement since earlier this year but still "crumbs" compared to what is needed  U.N. humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock said.AdvertisementAnd "5.6 million Syrians in acute need cannot live on crumbs " he added.Last month  the Syrian government launched a big military operation with Russian air support seeking to retake eastern Ghouta  which pro-government forces have besieged since 2013. After weeks of heavy bombardment  two rebel groups and al-Qaida fighters withdrew from their strongholds  and Syrian troops are now trying to push rebels out of a last one  the town of Douma.More than 1 600 civilians have been killed in the recent government offensive  according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Over 120 000 people have left eastern Ghouta.Critics say the evacuations amount to forced displacement  and the U.N. and the International Committee of the Red Cross have refused to facilitate them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Haley accused the Syrian government  Russia and Syrian ally Iran of making "a mockery" of the cease-fire demand and said Russia had used its veto-wielding seat to stop the Security Council from doing more.British Ambassador Karen Pierce implored Russia to use its influence with Syria to further U.N. humanitarian efforts  calling the lack of aid access "diabolical" — "a strong word  but there are no others to describe what is happening " she said.Syria refers to opposition fighters as terrorists and says they are the cause of civilian suffering."We have been witness to a state of hysteria over the past weeks in the council as the Syrian government sought to exercise its sovereign right and to combat terrorist groups ... and to restore security and stability " Ambassador Bashar Ja'afari said.Russia's envoy argued his country was the only council member taking concrete steps toward the resolution's goals. He pointed to the "humanitarian pauses " insisting the evacuations were voluntary  and said Russians had provided food  drinking water and medical aid to evacuees."The Russian Federation has proactively taken measures to normalize this situation " Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said. "Some members of the Security Council prefer to squander time on letters and rhetoric with unfounded claims against our country."The cease-fire resolution's sponsors  Kuwait and Sweden  said they were disappointed in the outcome but determined to keep trying to achieve its goals.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  3:08 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Pro-Syrian government forces including Russian mercenaries amassed near U.S. and U.S.-backed forces last week in Syria  but a potential confrontation was defused after the U.S. military contacted Russian officers  U.S. officials said on Tuesday.The latest incident in the Syrian province of Deir al-Zor  east of the Euphrates River  came a month after a similar buildup led to U.S. strikes that killed or injured hundreds of Russian contractors.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis disclosed the buildup of forces in the last week while speaking to Pentagon reporters.However  Mattis said that after U.S. forces spoke with their Russian counterparts  the pro-Syrian government troops pulled back.Advertisement"This was a recent development  but we think that the potential for a clash there  thanks to the Russian direction to this group  has been reduced " Mattis said.AdvertisementMattis said he believed the forces were under Russian control.The U.S. military also attempted to use a hot line with Russia to defuse a crisis in February when forces who later turned out to be working for a Kremlin-linked contractor were building up near U.S. and U.S.-backed forces in Syria.When the opposing forces attacked  the United States unleashed hours of strikes and killed about 300 men in a major incident that both Russia and the United States sought to publicly downplay.The incidents underscored the potential for further conflict in Syria's oil-rich east  where the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias holds swathes of land seized in its offensive against Islamic State militants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The U.S.-led coalition was set up in 2014 to battle Islamic State fighters in both Syria and Iraq  who were largely defeated last year.Some 2 000 U.S. troops remain on the ground in Syria  allied with the Kurdish-led SDF alliance.Mattis said he has not seen Turkish forces move against Manbij  which is located in northeast Syria about 30 miles south of the Turkish border.Turkey has said it will drive the Kurdish YPG militia away from the Syrian border if it does not reach an agreement with the United States on a plan to remove the group from the Manbij region."There has been no move against Manbij and we continue our dialogue with the Turkish authorities about how do we sort this out " Mattis said.In January  Turkey's army and its Syrian rebel allies began a military offensive against the YPG militia in Syria's Afrin district and gained full control of the region over the weekend.(Reporting by Idrees Ali and Phil Stewart; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 27  2018
PARIS — The aftermath of terrorist attacks in France has taken on a grim familiarity: political recriminations; the prosecutor of terrorism cases on the nightly news; the family photographs of the victims  their lives cut short.In the wake of Friday’s attack in the small southern town of Trèbes  what altered this violent narrative were the extraordinary actions of an individual whose heroism gave people a way to come together  and its culmination in a supermarket  an ordinary place familiar to every Frenchman and woman — rural or urban  Christian or Muslim  young or old — so that everyone was able to imagine being there.The hero was Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame of the French Gendarmerie who volunteered to exchange places with a hostage — a cashier — and was killed. He will be honored Wednesday in a ceremony at Les Invalides in Paris and eulogized by President Emmanuel Macron.“One tries to understand it  but one cannot get there ” said Patricia Perderiset  65  a retiree who had been shopping in the Trèbes market  the Super U  for Easter eggs for her grandchildren.AdvertisementIt is the only market of any size in the area  and people often see friends and neighbors there. Ms. Perderiset was about to say hello to a friend who was a cashier when she heard the first shots and a man shouting  “Allahu akbar!” She keeps going over the events  and thinking of those who lost their lives.Advertisement“I am thinking about the family of the butcher  about the customer who died for nothing  and about the colonel who sacrificed himself for us and that  had he not done that  he would be among us ” she said in an interview on Tuesday.The attack on Friday morning killed four people and left four others seriously wounded. The attacker  Radouane Lakdim  25  who was killed by the police  was a French-Moroccan of dual citizenship  who came to France when he was 4 months old.While French officials believed he had been radicalized in part because of his association with local Salafists  followers of an ultraconservative branch of Islam  and had put him on an active watch list  Mr. Lakdim was not thought to be on the verge of violence  said François Molins  the prosecutor  in a briefing late Monday.Mr. Lakdim did not seem to harbor any desires of going to Syria or Iraq  Mr. Molins added. Like a number of others who have drifted into terrorist behavior  Mr. Lakdim had a history as a petty criminal and small-time drug trafficker  and he had served time in prison. The French domestic intelligence agency had recently summoned Mr. Lakdim for an interview  but he had not yet gone to it.Accounts from witnesses show how quickly a familiar place can be transformed into a hostile one.At 10:39 on Friday morning  more than two dozen people were doing their weekly shopping in the Super U in Trèbes  a town of about 5 500  in the Aude Department in southern France when Mr. Lakdim arrived in the parking lot in a stolen car. He had stolen it about an hour earlier after wounding the driver and fatally shooting a passenger  Jean Mazières.Mr. Lakdim ran toward the supermarket brandishing a handgun and a large knife and began shooting almost as soon as he got inside  killing a butcher  Christian Medves  50. He ran down a row of cash registers  shouting: “Allahu akbar” and  using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State  “I am a soldier of Daesh.” The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack  using wording that suggested that the attacker was inspired by the group  rather than directed by it.“Get down  get down  don’t move” Mr. Lakdim said  fatally shooting a customer at almost the same time.The customer  Hervé Sosna  65  was a retired mason  said Denis Vial  a retiree who was in same checkout line and dropped to the floor next to him  according to a video interview published in the local paper  La Depêche du Midi.AdvertisementMs. Perderiset ignored the gunman’s instructions to get down. She pushed away her shopping cart and ran toward the back of the store  arriving at the fish counter. “I saw myself arrive alone in front of the woman who works behind the fish counter and she gestured me to come hide in the reserve room for the fish ” Ms. Perderiset said.Mr. Vial  meanwhile  was lying still on the floor as were about a dozen other employees and shoppers  he said. They were there for nearly an hour when Colonel Beltrame  44  entered unarmed  holding his hands in the air and talking to Mr. Lakdim  who was holding one of the cashiers as a shield with a gun pointed to her head  said the prosecutor  Mr. Molins.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For most people it would be unimaginable to approach  unarmed  a gunman  said Bernard Bajolet  the former head of the French foreign intelligence service  but Colonel Beltrame was not just brave  he was also deeply prepared for the moment.In 2005  when Mr. Bajolet was serving as ambassador to Iraq  Colonel Beltrame led the gendarmes contingent guarding him.The French gendarmes sent to protect overseas operations are given especially tough training  Mr. Bajolet said  but Colonel Beltrame stood out. Then a captain  “he said how enthusiastic he was about the mission and that he was ready to sacrifice for it — not in a suicidal sense  but he knew that in certain circumstances you have to do certain things and he told me that ” Mr. Bajolet said.“He was a man with a perfect sense of control ” Mr. Bajolet added. “I trusted him completely.”Daniel Cerdan  also a former member of the gendarmerie’s elite unit  said Colonel Beltrame would have planned his approach carefully.“When he took that women’s place  he did so because he wanted to save a human life ” Mr. Cerdan said in an interview  noting that Colonel Beltrame might have perceived Mr. Lakdim’s willingness to speak with him as an opening.Advertisement“I don’t think that in his mind it was a sacrifice ” Mr. Cerdan said. “It was thought out.”Mr. Vial and others described hearing Colonel Beltrame say calmly to Mr. Lakdim  as he held the female cashier hostage  “Free her  she has done nothing.”Mr. Lakdim did so a few minutes later  and demanded that Salah Abdeslam  the only surviving member of the Islamic State group that killed 130 people in and around Paris in a series of coordinated attacks in November 2015  be freed. Colonel Beltrame told him he would convey the message  according to the prosecutor  Mr. Molins.What happened next was not so clear. Gunshots were heard over the line that Colonel Beltrame had left open on his cellphone  and gendarmes  fearing that their comrade was under attack  began the assault that ultimately killed Mr. Lakdim.An autopsy found that while Colonel Beltrame had a gunshot wound in one arm and a foot  the lethal blow came from a knife wound in the neck.Aurelien Breeden and Elian Peltier contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement
                At War            By                     
 C. J. CHIVERS
 
MARCH 27  2018
A conversation with Rania Abouzeid  author of “No Turning Back: Life  Loss  and Hope in Wartime Syria” (W.W. Norton & Company  2018)Much of war is crime  a series of depredations and abuses — some calculated  others opportunistic  many a matter of routine — that participants cloak with sanctimony  euphemism and lies. The war in Syria serves as an example for our times  even as it continues to unfold.Since unrest spread in Syria in 2011  Rania Abouzeid  a freelance journalist who is fluent in Arabic  has been one of the most courageous and committed foreign observers of the war  examining its horrors and complexities by journeying within it. Along the way  she developed an enviable array of sources on many sides. Her first book  “No Turning Back: Life  Loss  and Hope in Wartime Syria ” taps this network to trace the conflict’s escalation from uncertain protests to intractable regional war  all told through characters that imbue the account with a personal tone.“War arrives suddenly  uninvited  and brings with it a new normal ” Abouzeid writes. “It has its own cadence  its own logic. It is the mundane experienced through heightened  sometimes supercharged emotions. The daily rhythm of life goes on  as it must  but with a constant undercurrent of tension  a baseline permanently shifted with the knowledge that a single abrupt event at any time — a knock on the door  an artillery shell  a sniper’s bullet — can upend everything. The commonness of death cheapens life.”“No Turning Back” offers a grim tour of an unraveling nation. It is packed with violence and treachery  filled with dreary scenes. Memorable characters appear only to disappear  claimed by assassination  airstrikes or prisons (dungeons might be the better word) in which they are subjected to forms of torture that took ordinary thuggery to inventive new lows. One of Abouzeid’s central characters  Suleiman Tlass Farzat  a detained protester  is “cycled in perpetuity through a labyrinth of suffering” so replete with viciousness that he marvels at “the artistic cruelty of his guards.”AdvertisementAnother  Hanin  an asthmatic Alawite child  is abducted by jihadists  who use children as leverage for a prisoner exchange. Sara  the sister of Mohammad  a Qaeda emir  lived near the hostages before the war. She musters little sympathy. “I used to have Alawite friends ” she tells Abouzeid. “I never thought that I would want to live far from the Alawites. Never. Now I do. I am scared of them and they are scared of us. There is blood between us.”Advertisement“At least the Alawites aren’t being raped ” she adds. “I will not help them.”This sort of moral corruption and sectarian self-righteousness helped violence spread through Syria like an uncontained  leaping fire. Many efforts at hastening the war’s end served as more fuel. Even would-be allies turned upon each other  as competition among groups seeking the downfall of President Bashar al-Assad created wars within the war  including the fratricidal militant infighting that Ayman al-Zawahiri  Al Qaeda’s leader  labeled the “waterfall of blood.”The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with the At War team.And then there was the awkward and ineffective support provided by the United States. This element emerges in Abouzeid’s portrayal of the frustration of the Hazm Movement  an American-funded rebel alliance that gathered intelligence on the activities and locations of Jabhat al-Nusra and the Islamic State  both of which were designated terrorist organizations by the United States.For months the United States did not act on the intelligence. Then  when it began attacking jihadist positions in Syria in 2014  it gave Hazm no warning  leaving its fighters and agents exposed to retaliation.Hazm was soon overpowered by Jabhat al-Nusra  yielding its American-supplied weapons to the Qaeda affiliate — a process resembling what has played out repeatedly since 2001 in Afghanistan and Iraq  where many American partners have been bedeviled by desertion and battlefield defeat. A Hazm operative shares a scalding critique  telling Abouzeid that “Russia is more honorable and trustworthy than the United States  because at least it is really standing alongside its ally.”Abouzeid was briefly in New York this month. She sat down to discuss her reporting  and that word in her book’s subtitle — “hope.”You covered Syria from the beginning  before protest seemed likely and when uprising seemed impossible. How did you select characters from the many people you met?I ended up with these characters because I felt that although they are individuals  each of their stories illuminated larger truths. I wanted to use characters and their experiences as vehicles  for example  to explain what happened to a Free Syrian Army battalion or the Islamization of the uprising. So I chose characters who would help a reader understand certain elements of the Syrian conflict.Advertisement“No Turning Back” illuminates experiences and points of view of female characters  including girls who came of age during war. Such voices are not prominent in news reports. Was it a mission to include them?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I wanted to include as many voices as I could to present as full a picture as I could. I spent more time with the men  because it’s the men who wage the wars. But the women are certainly there  and they’re there in many different capacities. I focused on Ruha  who was 9 years old in 2011  to tell the story of her family of very strong women  because I wanted to make sure that even in stories of war  the voices of others  who are not necessarily waging it  are also heard.The book mostly covers Sunnis  but there are sections that cover Alawites and sections that cover the government point of view. It was very hard in Syria to toggle between sides  but you managed  in spite of all of your time with Free Syrian Army and Islamist battalions  to be a guest of Air Force Intelligence in one of their main detention centers in Damascus —Where I was wanted as well. I was wanted by Air Force Intelligence.There were active warrants out for you. And you also covered the perspective of an Alawite family that was kidnapped by Islamists. How did you get access across this divide?I was branded a spy for several foreign states  and I learned that I was wanted by three of Syria’s four main intelligence agencies and barred from entering the country. This forced me to focus on the rebel side. I was on the Latakian front with the rebels in August 2013  shortly after their raid into those villages. And then I returned to Beirut  where I arranged to meet Talal and other Alawites whose families had been kidnapped in the raid. I stayed in contact with these family members  and I did manage two trips into government-held territory in 2013 and 2016 and went to their homes.The government let you in  in spite of long barring you. How did you meet with the Alawite families?I was allowed into Damascus for a conference in 2016  and I sneaked away and made my way to the Alawite neighborhood. I continued reporting that side of the story from the homes of some of these Alawite families that were still hoping that their captive loved ones would be freed. It was hard. It was very difficult to get into that side  and it took years.On the opposite side  you knew Mohammad and his wife  who were privy to and perhaps even participated in the detention of Talal’s family. What did you make of the absence of sympathy in Mohammad for these victims?It’s a chilling moment. Mohammad is a father. He has children of his own. He has a wife  he has nieces and nephews  but he couldn’t relate. He had so dehumanized the other side that he couldn’t relate. And that’s what war does. It’s in the stories that people tell themselves to be able to brand somebody an enemy.But in this case the enemies were children —And they were neighbors  because Mohammad was from the same area. He was from Latakia  too. That’s the great tragedy of civil wars. They turn neighbors against one another.AdvertisementYou lay out starkly the American betrayal of Hazm. To those who have followed American proxy arrangements in the Middle East across the decades  this was not surprising. Did you see it coming?I don’t know if I saw it coming  but the bigger point for me is repeated American involvement in the Middle East and the lessons that aren’t learned and the impact they have on the local communities. If you’re going to be stomping around in a place with a heavy footprint  then you should understand the place and the people you may be stepping on. Because  as history has taught us  blowback is an ugly thing.Many of your stories are testaments to courage  like that of Hanin  the asthmatic Alawite child  who chose to remain a hostage so others could go free. In seven years of this war  what have you learned about Syrians?The incredible resilience of ordinary people. Hanin was a prisoner. She was asleep one night when rebels entered her home and took her and her siblings and her mother hostage. The biggest lesson for me was the way people can adapt  the way they can survive  the way they can persist and the way they can continue  in some cases  even to have hope and to still be able to forgive and to still believe in a Syrian-ness that transcends politics.Does that idea still exist?I think it exists on the individual level. People are the building blocks of communities  and when it comes down to the community level and how neighbors become neighbors again  if they do  then it has to start with people like that who just want to get on with it and go back to living their lives. There is always hope. I mean  if they haven’t given up hope  then how dare we? Conflicts end. It doesn’t matter how long they take. They eventually end.An earlier version of this article described Sara’s relationship with Mohammad incorrectly. She is his sister  not his wife.C.J. Chivers is a writer at large for the magazine. He has been a reporter for The Times since 1999 and covers war.Interview has been condensed and edited.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  10:15 A.M. E.D.T.
ROME —  Police in southern Italy have detained an Egyptian imam who ran a cultural center where he allegedly preached extremist and violent interpretations of Islam to children.Financial police in Foggia say Mohy Eldin Mostafa Omer Abdel Rahman is accused of criminal association with the aim of terrorism and instigation to violence. During a raid Tuesday  police seized his Al Dawa cultural center.A police statement said the seizure was part of a larger investigation that resulted in the arrest in July of a Chechen man  Eli Bombataliev  accused of fighting with the Islamic State group in Syria and participating in a deadly attack on foreign and Russian journalists in Chechnya.Italy has been spared an Islamic extremist attack  thanks in part to widespread wiretapping and expulsions of suspected extremists.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  2:56 A.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  Turkey's military killed 11 Kurdish militants in its southern Hatay province bordering Syria overnight  the governor's office said on Tuesday  and the army said two of its soldiers were killed in a blast in Syria's Afrin region.Backed by air support  Turkish security forces opened fire and killed the militants after spotting them in Hatay's Arsuz district  near the Mediterranean Sea  the governor's office said in a statement.It said the military seized the bodies of six of militants  along with M-16 rifles  a rocket launcher and ammunition. The group was believed to be behind several attacks in the province last year  it said.Turkey has fought an insurgency with Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants since 1984 and more than 40 000 people have been killed in the fighting  which is largely focused in Turkey's southeast  hundreds of kilometers (miles) east of Hatay.AdvertisementIn January  Turkey's army and its Syrian rebel allies began a military offensive against the Kurdish YPG militia in Syria's Afrin  bordering Hatay  and gained full control of the region at the weekend  according to a military source.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Separately  the Turkish Armed Forces said two Turkish soldiers died as a result of an improvised explosive device blast during search operations in Afrin region on Monday.Turkey regards the YPG as terrorists and an extension of the outlawed PKK. The European Union and United States designate the PKK a terrorist group but the YPG is a U.S. partner in the fight against Islamic State jihadists in Syria.Advertisement(Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by David Dolan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  1:42 P.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for dialogue on trade policy between the European Union and the United States in a telephone call with U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday.Trump last Thursday temporarily excluded the EU  the United States' biggest trading partner  and six non-European countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium."The chancellor called for a dialogue process between the European Union and the United States on trade policy  taking into account the rules-based international trade system " German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said in a statement.Seibert said Merkel and Trump had also affirmed their solidarity with Britain following a nerve gas attack that targeted a former Russian double agent in England.AdvertisementBritain has blamed Russia for the attack  something Moscow denies. The United States  Germany and a number of other countries have followed Britain in expelling Russian diplomats over the attack.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."(Trump and Merkel) welcomed the coordinated action of European states and NATO allies as a strong signal of unity towards Russia's  behaviour " Seibert said.AdvertisementMerkel's relationship with Trump got off to a frosty start after his election.Before a phone conversation on March 1 to discuss the war in Syria and Russian nuclear arms  the two leaders had not spoken to each other in more than five months.However  the two leaders reaffirmed their wish for their governments to cooperate closely  Seibert said. During their phone call  the two leaders also discussed the situation in Syria and with North Korea.(Reporting by Paul Carrel  editing by Emma Thomasson and Gareth Jones)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  12:06 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Saudi Arabia and Russia are working on a historic long-term pact that could extend controls over world crude supplies by major exporters for many years to come.Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told Reuters that Riyadh and Moscow were considering a longer deal to extend a short-term alliance on oil curbs that began in January 2017 after a crash in crude prices.“We are working to shift from a year-to-year agreement to a 10-20 year agreement ” the crown prince told Reuters in an interview in New York late on Monday.“We have agreement on the big picture  but not yet on the detail.” Russia  never a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  has worked alongside the 14-member cartel during previous oil gluts  but a 10-20 year deal between the two would be unprecedented.AdvertisementTop OPEC producer Saudi Arabia recruited Russia and other non-OPEC countries to help drain a glut when oil prices collapsed from over $100 a barrel in 2014 to below $30 in 2016.AdvertisementCrude has since recovered to $70 but fast-rising output from U.S. shale producers has capped prices.“This is all about whether the arrangement is a short-term expedient to deal with this particular crisis in the oil market  or whether it reflects a realignment in world oil ” said oil historian Daniel Yergin  vice-chairman at consultancy IHS Markit.“OPEC countries want to find a way to institutionalize this relationship rather than to have it be a one-shot deal.”ALLIANCE DESPITE SYRIA DIFFERENCESNews of the potential oil alliance comes at a time when Riyadh and Moscow have worked to cement an economic relationship despite being at odds over the conflict in Syria  where they back opposing sides.Riyadh supports rebels fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s army  while Russian and Iranian forces have backed Assad – meaning that Russia effectively sides with Iran  Riyadh’s regional arch-foe.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last October  Saudi King Salman became the first sitting Saudi monarch ever to visit Russia. He led a delegation to Moscow that agreed joint investment deals worth several billion dollars  providing much-needed investment for a Russian economy battered by low oil prices and Western sanctions.Despite their differences in the Middle East  Russia and Saudi Arabia have been drawn together by a common interest in propping up flagging world oil prices  and by the fact that Moscow  since its military intervention in Syria  has clout in the Middle East that other countries in the region cannot ignore.ARAMCO IPO LATE 2018  EARLY 2019The crown prince predicted that world oil demand would not peak until 2040  despite advances in renewable energy technologies and the electric vehicle.In an attempt to end Saudi Arabia's reliance on oil  he is leading a push to diversify the Saudi economy away from oil and gas by 2030.AdvertisementRiyadh plans to raise funds through the flotation of a 5 percent stake in state Saudi oil company Aramco. Time is running out for an initial public offering this year but the crown prince said the IPO could still take place at the end of 2018 or in early 2019  depending on financial market conditions.Saudi Oil Minister Khalid al-Falih said last week that documentation was ready but that a venue for the IPO had not yet been decided. The New York stock exchange is still in the running for the IPO  alongside London and Hong Kong  but Falih said there was a risk of a "frivolous" legal action if Aramco were listed in the United States.(Additional reporting by Stephen Adler; Editing by Frances Kerry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:30 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  A Syrian rebel group holed up in the besieged eastern Ghouta town of Douma said on Tuesday that Russia had yet to give its answer to proposals that involve insurgents and civilians staying in the area.In the face of defeat  rebel groups in other parts of eastern Ghouta have agreed to be moved to Idlib province in northwestern Syria. Douma  held by the Jaish al-Islam group  is the last remaining rebel-held part of eastern Ghouta."The Russians have not presented a decision on what the negotiations committee presented to them " Jaish al-Islam's military spokesman Hamza Birqdar said in a text message to Reuters from Douma  adding that a meeting was expected on Wednesday.He accused the Syrian government and its Russian ally of seeking to impose demographic changes on the area by forcing out its people.Advertisement"We have presented our decision to stay. This is not only a decision by Jaish al-Islam  but by all the revolutionary institutions and figures in Douma " Birqdar said.Thousands of people - rebel fighters and their families - have left other parts of eastern Ghouta since Thursday under the terms of withdrawal agreements brokered by Russia.Advertisement(Reporting by Tom Perry; Writing by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Gareth Jones)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:55 P.M. E.D.T.
GENEVA —  War crimes investigators and activists have amassed an "overwhelming volume" of testimony  images and videos documenting atrocities committed by all sides during Syria's war  a U.N. quasi-prosecutorial body said in its first report.The team  led by former French judge Catherine Marchi-Uhel  said it is preparing case files and has engaged with war crimes investigative units of various states including in Europe  whose courts can exercise universal jurisdiction to prosecute.In the future  an existing body - such as the International Criminal Court - or a new court could be given jurisdiction for Syria  according to the report.The team expects to finaliZe an agreement soon with the Commission of Inquiry (COI) on Syria on getting access to testimony and evidence collected by that separate team of U.N. investigators for the past six years  the report said.Advertisement"The volume of videos and other images - as well as the role played by social media - is unprecedented in any other accountability process with respect to international crimes to date " said the report by Marchi-Uhel's team.Advertisement"...It is not possible to prosecute all of the crimes committed  given their vast number " it added.But there is a need to sure "fair representation" by prosecuting crimes committed on all sides  and sexual and gender-based crimes  as well as violations against children  will be a priority  said the report  released on Monday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Investigators were also seeking to obtain information on the use of chemical weapons in Syria from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.A COI report on March 15 said Syrian government forces and allied militias had raped and sexually assaulted women  girls and men in a campaign to punish opposition communities - acts that constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity.Led by Paulo Pinheiro  the COI has accused Syrian government forces of committing war crimes and potentially crimes against humanity  including mass executions  and some opposition groups of international crimes such as murder and torture.Marchi-Uhel's team said its work would proceed independently of any Syrian peace process and be based on the principle that no amnesty can be granted for "core international crimes".(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Mark Heinrich)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  3:35 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  European Union leaders on Monday said they received no concrete answers from Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan to a long list of concerns including Turkey's operation in Syria to the jailing of journalists."We didn't achieve any kind of concrete compromise today " European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after talks with Erdogan in the Bulgarian costal town of Varna."But I still hope that will be possible in the future... Only progress on these issues will allow us to improve the EU-Turkey relations  including the accession process."(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Gabriela Baczynska)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  3:52 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  The European Union is worried over President Tayyip Erdogan's adherence to the rule of law at home and his actions in Syria and in the east Mediterranean but will go on offering its support for Syrian refugees  the bloc's senior officials said."Our meeting today demonstrated that while our relationship is going through difficult times  in areas where we do cooperate  we cooperate well " European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after an EU-Turkey summit in Varna."We reconfirm our readiness to keep up the dialogue and conversation and work together to overcome current difficulties with a view to unleashing the potential of our partnership."(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Gabriela Baczynska)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:07 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday that more than 130 people could have been exposed to the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury earlier this month."We assess that more than 130 people in Salisbury could have been potentially exposed to this nerve agent " May said in a statement delivered to parliament.May also said that Britain had information that indicated Russia over the last decade had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents  probably for assassination.She added that Russia had covered up the use of chemical weapons in Syria by the Assad government.Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.(Reporting by Elizabeth Piper  writing by Andy Bruce; editing by Guy Faulconbridge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:01 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday that more than 130 people could have been exposed to the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury earlier this month."We assess that more than 130 people in Salisbury could have been potentially exposed to this nerve agent " May said in a statement delivered to parliament.May also said that Britain had information that indicated Russia over the last decade had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents  probably for assassination.She added that Russia had covered up the use of chemical weapons in Syria by the Assad government.Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.(Reporting by Elizabeth Piper  writing by Andy Bruce; editing by Guy Faulconbridge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:22 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The last rebel group fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta said on Monday it was still trying to negotiate an end to the army's assault  dismissing a Russian report that it was ready to leave the stronghold near Damascus.All other insurgent groups there have agreed to surrender their territory in deals mediated by the government's ally Moscow  bringing President Bashar al-Assad to the cusp of his biggest victory over the rebels in more than a year.But the Jaish al-Islam group has kept hold of the town of Douma. "The negotiations are still ongoing without reaching a final agreement till this moment " said spokesman Hamza Birqdar in a social media message.A Russian officer earlier said on Monday the group had signalled during talks it was ready to lay down its arms. "(This) is a lie and devoid of truth " Birqdar said. "An attempt to insist on forced displacement will be catastrophic " he added.AdvertisementThe group's fighters skirmished with the Syrian army on one front of the Douma pocket on Monday  said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  a Britain-based war monitoring group. The army fired shells into the town  it added.AdvertisementUnder the Russian deals  scores of buses have left the area since Thursday carrying fighters from other rebel groups  their families and civilians who do not want to come back under Assad's rule  to opposition areas in northwestern Syria.On Monday  a long line of buses stood waiting at a road junction  waiting to take thousands more people north.They were leaving the towns of Arbin  Zamalka  Ein Terma and Jobar after the Failaq al-Rahman group which held the area agreed a surrender deal on Friday.BUSES LEAVEMore than 40 buses had filled with evacuees by Monday afternoon  after scores had left from there and from a separate enclave in the town of Harasta  where rebels accepted a deal on Thursday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Footage on state television on Monday showed four small children looking from the window of one bus as it prepared to depart  and another driving past an immense billboard depicting Assad's father  who ruled Syria from 1971-2000.Pro-opposition Orient television showed an earlier convoy that had arrived in Idlib from eastern Ghouta. People clambered off buses  lifting small children and large sacks of belongings. A fighter with a rifle slung over his shoulder stood nearby.Russia has promised the rebels will be safe  but insurgent groups have said they do not trust Moscow to protect them.Syria's government has won a string of victories since Russia entered the war on his side in 2015  often using siege and bombardment to force rebels to surrender.AdvertisementA full conquest of eastern Ghouta would be Assad's biggest win since driving rebels from Aleppo in December 2016  though insurgents remain entrenched in areas of northwestern and southwestern Syria.Western countries and rights groups have accused Damascus and Moscow of indiscriminate bombardment  including the targeting of civilian infrastructure and the use of barrel bombs  chlorine gas and incendiary explosives.They deny that and say their offensives  including the one against eastern Ghouta which started on Feb. 18 with a crushing bombardment  are necessary to free civilians from the rule of Islamist militants and end mortar attacks on government areas.(This version of the story corrects identity of Jaish al-Islam official).(Reporting By Ellen Francis and Angus McDowall in Beirut and Maria Kiselyova in Moscow; Editing by Andrew Heavens)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  6:56 A.M. E.D.T.
CANBERRA  Australia —  The head of the United Nations food agency warned Monday that the relocation of Islamic State group members from the Middle East to Africa could trigger a massive new European migrant crisis.David Beasley  executive director of the World Food Program  said many of the militants who fled Syria amid the collapse of the Islamic State group's self-described caliphate had ended up in the greater Sahel region  a belt of semi-arid land spanning east-west across Africa and home to 500 million people.Islamic State militants are now collaborating with other extremist groups  including al-Qaida  al-Shabab and Boko Haram  to create "extraordinary difficulties" across the Sahel  Beasley said in an interview with The Associated Press.He said he has warned European leaders that they could face a far larger migrant crisis from the Sahel than the Syrian conflict generated if they do not help provide the region with food and stability.Advertisement"You're talking about the greater Sahel region of 500 million people  so the Syria crisis could be like a drop in the bucket compared to what's  coming your way " Beasley said he told them.Advertisement"What they're now doing is coming into an already fragile area  a very destabilized area because of climate impact and governance  and they're infiltrating  recruiting  using food as a weapon of recruitment to destabilize so that they can have mass migration into Europe " he said."Mother after mother will tell you that 'My husband did not want to join ISIS or al-Qaida  but we had no food ' and if you haven't fed your little girl or little boy in two weeks and the alternative is signing up with ISIS  you sign up " Beasley added  referring to the group  also known as Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.The World Food Program wants to provide stability  economic growth and sustainable development as well as food to the region  said Beasley  who was in Australia for talks with the government on funding strategies.The Sahel — which includes Burkina Faso  Chad  Niger  Mali and Mauritania — is vulnerable to droughts and floods and faces constant food insecurity.Five nations have also been grappling with a growing menace from extremists  including groups linked to al-Qaida's North Africa branch.In February 2017  the so-called "Group of Five" agreed to assemble a 5 000-strong force to combat extremist groups  organized crime and human trafficking.U.N. experts monitoring the implementation of sanctions on Mali warned this month that the conflict-wracked West African nation and its neighbors "face intensified terrorist threats " especially in the border area between Burkina Faso  Mali and Niger.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The experts' interim report said the militant group calling itself the official al-Qaida branch in Mali and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara extremist group have declared that "jihadist groups are working together" to fight the 5 000 troops.AdvertisementIn January  the U.N. Security Council threatened sanctions against parties in Mali who obstruct or delay the full implementation of the peace deal agreed to by Mali's government  Tuareg separatists and armed groups.The experts concluded after their Mali visit in February that "all parties to the agreement are responsible for delays."Mali has been in turmoil since a 2012 uprising prompted mutinous soldiers to overthrow the country's president. The power vacuum that was created ultimately led to an Islamic insurgency and a French-led war that ousted the jihadists from power in 2013. But insurgents remain active in the region.The U.N. panel said "insecurity continues to rage and is now shifting increasingly toward the center of the country" from the north.Across the country  it said  "an estimated 4.1 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance."The experts said the extremist group Jama Nusrat Ul-Islam wa Al-Muslimin  which positioned itself as the al-Qaida branch in Mali  and Islamic State in the Greater Sahara have claimed attacks not only in Mali but in Niger  in the Tahoua and Tillaberi regions.In Burkina Faso  the experts said  "the terrorist group Ansar Al-Islam has multiplied attacks in the last months against the government  including two attacks against Burkinabe security forces in Soum province on Dec. 2 and Dec. 21."Beasley told the Security Council last week that the number of people around the world in danger of dying unless they get food urgently surged to 124 million last year — mainly because "people won't stop shooting at each other."He said by video link that almost 32 million of those acutely hungry people live in four conflict-wracked countries: Somalia  Yemen  South Sudan and northeastern Nigeria  where famine was averted last year.AdvertisementGlobally  Beasley said  60 percent of the 815 million chronically hungry people who don't know where their next meal is coming from live in conflict areas.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:46 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  European Union leaders said talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Monday offered no answers to a long list of concerns including over Turkey's intervention in Syria and the jailing of journalists at home.At a summit that host Bulgaria described as "charged with great tension"  the bloc vowed to keep funds flowing for a refugee deal with Ankara  but disappointed Turkish demands for deeper trade ties or visa-free travel to Europe.Despite criticism from European governments of what many view as Erdogan's growing authoritarianism  EU leaders left the door open to Turkey's stalled bid for membership to the bloc  but said only he could act to remove the obstacles to accession."I raised all our concerns  as you know it was a long list"  European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after the talks held in the Black Sea port city of Varna.Advertisement"If you are asking me if we achieved some solutions or compromises - my answer is: no " he added. "Our position is clear - only progress on these issues will allow us to improve EU-Turkey relations  including the accession process".AdvertisementErdogan  who has alarmed the West with a massive purge since a failed coup attempt in July 2016  remains an important ally in the U.S.-led NATO alliance  the fight against Islamic militants and as a destination for many Syrians fleeing war.Turkey shares borders with Iraq and Syria as well as influence with Russia in the Black Sea region  but the EU is still its biggest foreign investor and trading partner.EU leaders cited these geostrategic interest as common ground for greater cooperation with Turkey  despite differences."While our relationship is going through difficult times  in areas where we do cooperate  we cooperate well " Tusk told reporters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.STRATEGIC PARTNERSOver a two-hour dinner of "Slav salad"  turbot fished from the Black Sea and local wines  Erdogan said he pressed EU counterparts for progress in talks on letting Turks visit Europe without visas and a deeper customs union."We hope to have left the difficult times with the EU behind"  Erdogan said. "Turkey and the EU are long-term strategic partners. It would be a serious mistake for the bloc to push Turkey out of its enlargement politics".Only on Erdogan's plea for EU funds under a March 2016 deal to take in migrants fleeing the country's war did the bloc's leaders convey their full support.However  on the issue of Turkey's membership negotiations  which began in 2005  then stalled for five years and have now effectively collapsed  they seemed to be talking past each other.AdvertisementBrussels considers the EU membership bid a separate process focussed on rule of law  press freedoms and economic reforms. EU officials say Turkey's post-coup crackdown on civil rights has taken it further from complying with EU membership.Objections to Turkey's military sweep northwest into Syria’s Afrin region and a standoff over Mediterranean gas with EU members Greece and Cyprus have added to grievances.Erdogan has also made more foes in Europe in the past year over what some view as hostile rhetoric  including comparing the Dutch and German governments to Nazis  with some calling for an end to accession talks.(Additional reporting by Robin Emmott in Brussels and Tulay Karadeniz in Varna; writing by Alissa de Carbonnel and Robin Emmott; editing by John Stonestreet and G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  9:56 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Russia's military said Monday it expects to reach an agreement with a major Syrian rebel group to arrange its exit from the last rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta in another key victory for President Bashar Assad's forces as they push to gain control of the region on the edge of Damascus.Douma is the only town on the eastern outskirts of the Syrian capital still held by rebels  after government forces captured all other opposition areas they had besieged for years.The town  controlled by the powerful Army of Islam  is also home to tens of thousands of people  including many who were displaced over the past weeks of heavy fighting.Lt. Gen. Stanislav Gadzhimagomedov told Russian news agencies on Monday in Syria that Russia's military is in talks with the Army of Islam to discuss its withdrawal from Douma.AdvertisementGadzhimagomedov  who is the deputy head of the Chief Operational Department at the Russian General Staff  said he expects Russian troops to "take them out soon " and that the rebels have reportedly indicated their willingness to lay down arms.AdvertisementHowever  the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said there are divisions within the rebel group over the negotiations  with some hard-liners refusing any talks with Russians. The Observatory said some fighters asked to be allowed to go to the southern province of Daraa  but that the Russians rejected this request.Syria's pro-government Al-Watan daily said the Army of Islam and the Russians have reached an "understanding " adding that each side will study a draft agreement within the next three days.Al-Watan quoted Syrian legislator Mohammed Kheir Seiryoul  who is originally from Douma  as saying that the understanding could lead to an agreement to dissolve the Army of Islam. During this period  its members would hand over their heavy weapons and the Syrian government would assume control of state institutions in the town.A civilian committee representing Douma said in a statement released late Sunday after meeting Russian officials that the negotiations "are extremely difficult and no quick results should be expected."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Talks with the Russians will resume within three days  it said.Douma-based opposition activist Haitham Bakkar said the town was subjected to some artillery shelling early on Monday that wounded several people.The negotiations on Douma came after thousands of rebel fighters and their families left three other eastern Ghouta pockets in the past weeks  after years of siege and weeks of heavy bombardment by the Syrian army and Russia's air force.On Monday  a convoy of 56 buses carrying 3 641 people  including 850 fighters from various rebel factions  was preparing to leave the towns of Jobar  Zamalka  Ein Terma  and Arbeen toward Idlib  state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV reported.The Russian Defense Ministry's Center for Reconciliation in Syria said in a statement that more than 400 people left Douma early Monday. It put the total figure of civilians and rebels evacuated from the area since the Russia-sponsored "humanitarian pauses" were announced at 114 000 people.AdvertisementArmy of Islam spokesman Hamza Bayraqdar blasted the group's former ally  the Faylaq al-Rahman rebel group  accusing it of helping government forces capture more than 80 percent of rebel-held districts after they dried out artificial swamps set up by insurgents to slow down the army's offensive."We had defensive plans prepared  but regrettably Faylaq al-Rahman cut the water that was brought from Barada River " Bayraqdar told the Dubai-based Al-Arabiya TV. "This sped up the regime's advance."___Vasilyeva reported from Moscow.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardBy expelling scores of Russians from the United States and 21 other countries  President Trump and allied leaders have imposed the most significant punishment yet on Russia and its leader  Vladimir Putin. It’s a move that is well overdue for Mr. Trump  whose long refusal to criticize Mr. Putin and hesitancy to act against Russia’s malign behavior have raised suspicions that Moscow knows secrets it could use to blackmail the American president.Monday’s development offers some hope that Mr. Trump may finally be forced to deal with the threat that Mr. Putin poses to the United States and its Western allies.Put the emphasis there on “hope.” Mr. Trump will have to go even further to push back effectively against Mr. Putin’s mischief  which runs the gamut from interference in the elections in America and other Western democracies to propelling the wars in Ukraine and Syria.The expulsion orders retaliate specifically for the poisoning of a former Russian spy  Sergei Skripal  and his daughter in Britain  for which the Kremlin has been blamed. On the American side  it includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers at the United Nations in New York and 48 at the Russian Embassy in Washington. Also  the Russian consulate in Seattle will be closed because of concerns that Russians were spying on a nearby submarine base and Boeing manufacturing facilities.Mr. Putin almost certainly will retaliate  continuing a downward spiral in Russian-American relations unheard-of since the Cold War. That will further disrupt the ability of the two nations to work on serious challenges  like ending the war in Syria and defusing a new nuclear arms race.It appears to be getting more difficult for Mr. Trump to remain passive in the face of Russian aggression. On March 15  he imposed sanctions on a series of Russian organizations and individuals for interference in the 2016 presidential election and other “malicious cyberattacks.”Yet  the president still panders to Mr. Putin  even as he intensifies criticism of the special counsel  Robert Mueller  and the former F.B.I. director’s investigation into Trump associates’ web of Russian ties.The most recent example occurred last week when Mr. Trump  who has infrequent calls with the leaders of America’s closest allies  made a point of calling Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his recent fraudulent re-election. Missing from the call was any scolding for the nerve-gas attack on the Russian spy that prompted Monday’s expulsions or any demand that Mr. Putin stop meddling in American elections.Even now  Mr. Trump is distancing himself from the expulsion order issued in his name  underscoring the incoherence in his approach. Rather than being introduced with powerful words from the president  the decision was announced in a White House statement saying the actions “make clear to Russia that its actions have consequences.”The United States and its allies must stay united in condemning Mr. Putin’s nefarious activities and holding him to account. The expulsions show Russia will pay a price for using chemical weapons on allied territory.But Mr. Trump has still not done much to counter Mr. Putin’s most dangerous initiative — meddling in the 2016 election and the coming November midterms. No  it will be impossible to see this administration as taking the threat seriously until Mr. Trump orders  at long last  a comprehensive campaign to repair weaknesses in the American electoral system and prevent tampering in future elections.He should also sanction Russian oligarchs — freezing their assets  barring them from the global banking system  preventing their children from attending Western schools — ensuring that Mr. Putin’s cronies feel America’s reach and use their influence to stop his aggression.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy DECLAN WALSH and ERIC SCHMITTMARCH 25  2018
BENGHAZI  Libya — The United States military carried out its first ever drone strike against Qaeda militants in southern Libya this weekend  signaling a possibly significant expansion of the American counterterrorism campaign in the North African nation.Until now  the Pentagon had focused its counterterrorism strikes in Libya almost exclusively on Islamic State fighters and operatives farther north — eight since President Trump took office. In 2016  the military conducted nearly 500 airstrikes in the coastal city of Surt over several months to destroy the Islamic State’s stronghold there.But the attack on Saturday that the military’s Africa Command said had killed two militants — later identified by a spokeswoman as belonging to Al Qaeda’s branch in northwestern Africa — took place in the country’s southwest  a notorious haven for a deadly mix of Al Qaeda and other extremist groups that also operate in the Sahel region of Niger  Chad  Mali and Algeria.“This appears to be the continuation of expanding AFRICOM activity in Libya’s ungoverned areas ” said Deborah K. Jones  who served as United States ambassador to Libya from 2013 to 2015  referring to the Africa Command.AdvertisementA missile fired by the American drone struck a house in Ubari  435 miles south of Tripoli  in an area close to major oil fields that was wracked by violent ethnic feuding in 2015. Pictures in Libyan news media outlets showed a mutilated corpse lying in the rubble of a house  and a pair of shrapnel-ridden vehicles nearby. Local residents were quoted by the media outlets as saying the house had been frequented by foreigners.AdvertisementIn a statement  the military’s Africa Command said the strike had targeted militants with Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  an affiliate also known as AQIM  and had been carried out in coordination with the United Nations-backed unity government in Tripoli. “At this time  we assess no civilians were killed in this strike ” the statement said.The strike came as the Trump administration has been reassessing the American military commitment in North and West Africa after the ambush in Niger last fall that killed four American soldiers. The Pentagon has been preparing to fly armed drone missions from Niger’s capital  Niamey  a step that diplomats and analysts say could further widen the Pentagon’s shadow war in this part of the continent.In a sign of how the Pentagon has sought to obscure its operations in Libya and other parts of northwestern Africa  the Africa Command did not announce the strike on Saturday.It responded to questions from The New York Times late Saturday with a terse statement after media reports about the strike circulated in Libya. The statement did not identify where the drone had originated.Earlier this month  in response to a Times query  the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that Green Berets working with government forces in Niger had killed 11 Islamic State fighters in a firefight in December. No Americans were hurt in that fight  the Pentagon said.Ubari is at the intersection of the powerful criminal and jihadist currents that have washed across Libya in recent years. Roughly equidistant from Libya’s borders with Niger  Chad and Algeria  the area’s seminomadic tribesmen are heavily involved in the smuggling of weapons  drugs and illegal migrants through the lawless deserts of southern Libya.Some have allied with Islamist militias  including Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  which operates across Algeria  Mali  Niger and Libya.AdvertisementThe area erupted into conflict in 2014 when a century-old peace treaty between the Tuareg and Tebu ethnic groups collapsed over a dispute about control of the fuel smuggling trade. The fighting  which occurred independently of the broader struggle for control of Libya after the 2011 overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi  raged for a year  killing hundreds and leaving many families displaced.The Tebu and Tuareg eventually struck a peace agreement  and a neutral militia currently keeps the peace in Ubari  but tensions remain. In November  Turkish engineers working at the city power station were kidnapped by unidentified gunmen  as was a Pakistani engineer at the station who went missing this month  according to local news media reports.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While some Tebu groups have allied with the United Nations-backed government in Tripoli  Tuareg factions have allied with Qaeda  which is also believed to have profited from the trade in smuggled fuel.In the statement on Saturday  Robyn M. Mack  a spokeswoman for the United States Africa Command  said that it was still assessing the results of the strike and that the purpose had been “to deny terrorists freedom of action and degrade their ability to reconsolidate.”But the command did not answer several other questions: Who were the two dead militants  and why were they important enough to kill with an airstrike? What role  if any  did France play in a region of Libya in which it has also conducted counterterrorism operations? And  most significantly  to what extent is the attack the start of an escalating campaign against a broad spectrum of extremists in northwestern Africa  or a one-off strike against high-profile Qaeda operatives?“Beginning a concerted strike campaign against AQIM or other AQ elements in the Sahel  akin to what we are doing in Yemen and Somalia  would mark a significant expansion of our counterterrorism efforts ” said Luke Hartig  a former senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council during the Obama administration.“If this is going to be the start of a broader campaign  it would be helpful to hear more from the administration about the threat posed by AQIM and why it merits putting our people in harm’s way and conducting strikes ” Mr. Hartig said.A senior French security official said France had played no role in the strike  but added that Paris was “very happy of this continued commitment of the U.S. to counterterrorism in Libya.”Questions about whether the American military  under the Trump administration  is seeking to blur the expanding scope of operations in Africa were raised this month when it was revealed that the United States had carried out four airstrikes in Libya between September and January that Africa Command did not disclose at the time. The military has said it will acknowledge such missions if asked about them  even if it does not affirmatively disclose them in a news release.AdvertisementMs. Mack said that Saturday’s attack was the first airstrike the United States had conducted against Al Qaeda in Libya. In fact  the United States conducted an airstrike in eastern Libya in June 2015 against Mokhtar Belmokhtar  the mastermind of the 2013 terrorist seizure of an Algerian gas plant that left 38 foreign hostages dead. Mr. Belmokhtar was a longtime Qaeda operative with ties to senior Qaeda leadership in Pakistan. Western intelligence officials today remain divided over whether he is dead.American efforts to hunt down Islamists in Libya’s vast deserts rely heavily on surveillance and airpower but also on alliances with the armed groups vying for control of Libya. Mohamed El Sallak  a spokesman for the United Nations-backed unity government  said on Twitter that the attack in Ubari on Saturday was part of the “strategic cooperation between Libya and the United States in the fight against terrorism.”But in Ubari  armed Tebu and Tuareg groups have sided with different sides in Libya’s chaotic struggle  and the unity government is by no means the dominant player.Some control a stretch of southern border  while others have allied with militias from the coastal cities of Misurata and Benghazi. The rising force now in the south is Field Marshal Khalifa Hifter  the commander of the Libyan National Army based in Benghazi.Since his forces ousted the last Islamist militias from Benghazi in December  Mr. Hifter has focused on the south  where he exerts influence through his fleet of aging warplanes and alliances with local armed groups.In Sebha  the largest southern city  Mr. Hifter and the rival United Nations-backed government are vying for control through local proxies. In Ubari  110 miles to the west  Mr. Hifter has allied with an ethnically mixed militia that is composed of former Qaddafi loyalists and more recent recruits.Declan Walsh reported from Benghazi  and Eric Schmitt from Washington. Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting from Berlin.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Strike in Libya Targeted Qaeda Haven.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  4:59 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Jaish al-Islam  the last rebel faction in control of territory in eastern Ghouta  said on Sunday it would not withdraw to other opposition-held parts of Syria as other rebel groups have done under deals negotiated with Syrian government ally Russia.After a month-long ground and air offensive and deals under which rebel fighters agreed to be transported to northern Syria  pro-Syrian government forces have taken control of most of what had been the last major rebel stronghold near the capital Damascus.Only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.Jaish al-Islam is currently negotiating with Russia over the future of the area and the people in it."Today the negotiations taking place ... are to stay in Ghouta and not to leave it " Jaish al-Islam's military spokesman Hamza Birqdar told Istanbul-based Syrian radio station Radio al-Kul via Skype from eastern Ghouta.AdvertisementBirqdar accused the Syrian government of trying to change the demographic balance of the eastern Ghouta by forcing out locals and replacing them with its allies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said in the negotiations with Russia Jaish al-Islam is asking for guarantees that what remains of the local population will not be forced out.AdvertisementBoth Ahrar al-Sham and Failq al-Rahman  two other rebel groups formerly in charge of pockets of the eastern Ghouta  have accepted deals under which they withdraw to opposition-held Idlib in northwest Syria.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington  editing by David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  12:47 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Hundreds of Syrian rebels and civilians were bused out of a second pocket of the besieged eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Sunday after rebels agreed to leave several towns and villages after years of siege and weeks of heavy bombardment.Close to 900 people were evacuated from the southernmost of three eastern Ghouta pockets on Sunday  according to state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV  following some 1 000 fighters  family members  and other civilians who departed late Saturday  as reported by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.They left in a fleet of buses  including the lime-green municipal buses that have come to symbolize defeat for the Syrian opposition and the rearrangement of Syria's population as the government takes back control of cities around the country.Fighters dressed in fatigues slumped in their seats and hid their faces from roadside news cameras  while children peered out of the open windows.AdvertisementMany are unsure if they will ever be able to return."I'm going to visit the tomb of my father (for the) last time " tweeted Muhammad Najem  a 15 year-old boy who said he was going to board the buses to Idlib  a rebel-stronghold in northwest Syria.Advertisement"We are going on an unknown journey to the refugee camps in Idlib. We don't know what is our fate there " said Najem in a separate video tweet.The evacuation is modeled on others in which rebels have surrendered swathes of territory around the capital and other major cities after years of siege and bombardment at the hands of President Bashar Assad's forces. They have been helpless against the government's overwhelming artillery and air power  boosted with support from Iran's Revolutionary Guard and Russia's air force.Rebels belonging to the Ahrar al-Sham and Faylaq al-Rahman factions began evacuating the central pocket of eastern Ghouta on Thursday. Some 7 000 people left the town of Harasta  bound for Idlib.Fighters loyal to the al-Qaida-linked Levant Liberation Committee  known by its Arabic acronym HTS  also began evacuating eastern Ghouta on Sunday  according to the Observatory.Rebels with the powerful Islam Army faction still controlled Douma  the largest town in eastern Ghouta  and the third and last pocket in the eastern Ghouta enclave. A delegation representing the town was in talks with Russia to reach a settlement that would have Russian forces deployed inside.Charities supporting the medical sector in Syrian opposition areas say evacuees were arriving to Hama  on the road to Idlib  bearing the marks of trauma  malnutrition  and other afflictions commensurate with the siege of eastern Ghouta. For four weeks  residents had to hide in overcrowded basements as the government shelled and bombed the region without pause.The Union of Medical Care and Relief Organizations said children and adults were arriving with intestinal infections  hepatitis  skin diseases and trauma injuries.AdvertisementBasel Termanini of the Syrian American Medical Society told journalists that local hospitals were filling up quickly and patients requiring critical care were being transferred to Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 1 600 people were killed in the five weeks that the government assaulted eastern Ghouta  after holding it under siege since 2013  according to the Observatory.The Syrian government is giving rebels and male residents the choice of laying down their weapons and signing up for military conscription or leaving with their families to rebel-held territories elsewhere in Syria. Tens of thousands across Syria have elected to leave with their families instead of serving or risking arrest by the state's notorious security services.Critics say the evacuations amount to forced displacement that legitimizes the government's brutal siege tactics  which have deprived hundreds of thousands of civilians of food and medicine and subjected them to years of violence. U.N. inquiries and top U.N. officials have likened the tactics to war crimes and crimes against humanity.The U.N. and the International Committee of the Red Cross have refused to facilitate the eastern Ghouta evacuations.Close to 11 million people have been forced from their homes by the violence that has swept through the country since the government began cracking down on Arab Spring protests in 2011.The government has restored its authority in most of the major population centers across the country  but there are few indications that refugees and the internally displaced are returning to their homes in large numbers.Many of the cities and towns once held by the opposition have been razed by government forces  and resources and funding for reconstruction are scarce.Meanwhile  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said his country's forces were aiming to take the town of Tel Rifaat in north Syria  after Turkey and allied Syrian opposition forces captured the Afrin region from a Syrian Kurdish militia.AdvertisementTurkey says the People's Protection Units  known by the Kurdish acronym YPG  is a threat to its national security. The YPG still holds Tel Rifaat  approximately 21 kilometers (13 miles) southeast of Afrin. It also holds a vast expanse of frontier territory along northeast Syria. This area is not linked with the Afrin region. The U.S. has been an ally of the YPG in the war on Islamic State group  and it maintains military bases and a troop presence with the YPG in the northeast. But the Pentagon has refused to interfere with NATO-member Turkey's military operations in Afrin.Questions remain over whether the U.S. will allow Turkey and allied Syrian forces to advance on the YPG in Manbij  another town near the frontier. Turkish daily Hurriyet newspaper  quoting Syrian opposition commander Mohammed Shibil  said allied Syrian opposition forces were starting drills and preparations to oust the YPG.___Associated Press writer Zeynep Bilginsoy in Istanbul contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:47 A.M. E.D.T.
KABUL —  Russia has rejected comments by NATO's top commander in Afghanistan that it has been supporting and even supplying weapons to the Taliban  in a clash of words that underlines growing tension over Moscow's involvement in the conflict.In an interview with the BBC last week  General John Nicholson said that Russia had been acting to undermine U.S. efforts in Afghanistan despite shared interests in fighting terrorism and narcotics  with indications that Moscow was providing financial support and even arms."We've had weapons brought to this headquarters and given to us by Afghan leaders and said this was given by the Russians to the Taliban " he said.A statement from the Russian embassy in Kabul dismissed the comments as "idle gossip"  repeating previous denials by Russian officials.Advertisement"Once again  we insist that such statements are absolutely baseless and appeal to officials not to talk nonsense " the embassy said.AdvertisementU.S. commanders  including Nicholson  have said on several occasions over the past year that Russia may be supplying arms to the Taliban although no confirmed evidence has so far been made public.However  Nicholson's comments were unusually blunt and came in a context of growing tensions between NATO members and Moscow over the case of Sergei Skripal  a former intelligence agent found poisoned with a rare nerve agent in Britain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Russian officials have said that their limited contacts with the Taliban were aimed at encouraging peace talks and ensuring the safety of Russian citizens. Moscow has offered to help coordinate peace talks in Afghanistan.Taliban officials have told Reuters that the group has had significant contacts with Moscow since at least 2007  adding that Russian involvement did not extend beyond "moral and political support".Moscow has been critical of the United States and NATO over their handling of the war in Afghanistan  but Russia initially helped provide helicopters for the Afghan military and agreed to a supply route for coalition materials through Russia.Most of that cooperation has fallen apart as relations between Russia and the West deteriorated in recent years over the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria.(Reporting by James Mackenzie; Editing by Richard Borsuk)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  6:14 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  More than 5 000 Syrian rebel fighters and their families boarded  77 buses on Sunday to wait to be taken from eastern Ghouta  Syrian state media said  in the second day of an evacuation from their former stronghold near the capital Damascus.The main rebel group in the Arbeen pocket of eastern Ghouta  Failaq al-Rahman  reached a deal on Friday under which fighters agreed to surrender the enclave to the government and be transported to an opposition-held area in northwest Syria.Around 1 000 fighters and their relatives left on Saturday  Syrian state news agency SANA said.After a month-long ground and air offensive and evacuation deals with Failaq al-Rahman and another rebel group  Ahrar al-Sham  pro-Syrian government forces control most of what had been a major rebel stronghold  just 15 km (9 miles) east of Damascus.Before the recent offensive  the suburb had an estimated population of 400 000. It had been under siege by government forces since 2013 and only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.AdvertisementThere have been negotiations but no deal yet between government forces and the main faction controlling Douma  Jaish al-Islam  which has said it wants to stay.AdvertisementTens of thousands of civilians have streamed out of Douma on foot during lulls in the bombardment of the past week. Hundreds more civilians left the area on Sunday  carrying children and hauling their belongings.Russian news agency RIA  citing the Russian defense ministry  said more than 108 000 civilians in total had left eastern Ghouta since it said a month ago that it would oversee daily humanitarian pauses in the fighting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.A military source told Reuters evacuation of Failaq al-Rahman fighters  who are coming from Zamalka  Jobar  Ein Terma and Arbeen towns  will take a couple of days to complete. They began boarding the buses on Sunday morning  but have not yet set off.State TV showed lines of green buses waiting. A young child could be seen dangling a bandaged hand out of a bus window. Some men covered their faces with scarves as they sat waiting.A number of fighters and family members who were transported last week from Harasta and Arbeen have arrived in rebel-held territory to the north  where many are receiving medical care  the opposition-run Hama health directorate said in a statement.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Daniel Wallis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday that Turkey had begun operations in Iraq's Sinjar region  an area where it has threatened a military incursion  two days after sources said Kurdish PKK militants would withdraw from the area."We said we would go into Sinjar. Now operations have begun there. The fight is internal and external " Erdogan told a crowd in the Black Sea province of Trabzon  without elaborating on what operations he was referring to.Iraq's Joint Operations Command denied that any foreign forces had crossed the border into Iraq."The operations command confirmed that the situation in Nineveh  Sinjar and the border areas was under the control of Iraqi security forces and there is no reason for troops to cross the Iraqi border into those areas " it said in a statement.Sources in Sinjar said there was no unusual military activity in the area on Sunday.The Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) has waged an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. President Tayyip Erdogan said last week they were creating a new base in Sinjar  and that Turkish forces would attack if necessary.AdvertisementSources in northern Iraq said on Friday the PKK would withdraw from Sinjar  where it gained a foothold in 2014 after coming to the aid of the Yazidi minority community  who were under attack by Islamic State militants.AdvertisementThe PKK  considered a terrorist organisation by Turkey  the European Union and the United States  has for decades been based in Iraq's Qandil mountain range  near the border with Iran.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkish troops and their rebel allies swept into northwest Syria's Afrin town this month  the culmination of an eight-week campaign to drive Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters from the region. Turkey sees the YPG as terrorists and an extension of the outlawed PKK.Erdogan has vowed to extend the military operation along the Syrian border and on Sunday said the Turkish-led forces would take control of the town of Tel Rifaat.Many civilians and YPG have gathered in and around Tel Rifaat after Turkey seized control of Afrin. It is a Kurdish-controlled enclave  cut off from a larger expanse of Kurdish territory in the northeast of Syria.The United Nations said last week that around 75 000 people had been displaced to Tel Rifaat and surrounding areas from Afrin  and more were expected to come.(Additional reporting by Lisa Barrington in Beirut and Raya Jalabi in Baghdad.; Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  9:44 A.M. E.D.T.
TREBES  France —  A French bishop paid tribute Sunday to a police officer who lost his life after swapping himself with a supermarket employee held hostage by an Islamist extremist  saying his heroic sacrifice helped save the nation.Survivors and families of the four victims of Friday's rampage of attacks packed the Saint-Etienne-de-Trebes church for the special Mass honoring Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame.Members of the region's Muslim community were among those mourning at the special Palm Sunday service in the southern town of Trebes  near the medieval city of Carcassonne. The manager of the supermarket sat in the front row  alongside her husband  the town mayor.The bishop of Carcassonne and Narbonne  Alain Planet  hailed Beltrame's "extraordinary act  extraordinary devotion."Advertisement"It is better that one man dies for the people  so that the nation doesn't perish " the bishop said. He added that the horrific slayings have forced everyone to confront the reality of death and suffering across the world  noting turmoil in Sudan  the Middle East and elsewhere.AdvertisementThe Islamic State group claimed that the attacker — Radouane Lakdim  25  born in Morocco — was answering its call to target nations in the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS militants in Syria and Iraq.Lakdim was killed by police Friday after Beltrame helped them storm the market. Lakdim also killed the supermarket's butcher  a shopper and a passenger in the car that Lakdim had hijacked earlier in nearby Carcassonne. He shot at riot police  one of whom was injured  then headed to the supermarket in Trebes.Two people have been detained for questioning in the case.French police searching Lakdim's home in Carcassonne found notes referring to the Islamic State group that appeared to be a final testament  a judicial official said on Saturday. Also found were a computer and telephone.Three homemade explosive devices  a handgun and a hunting knife were discovered inside the supermarket  suggesting the attacker may have had still deadlier plans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The head of France's National Gendarmerie  Gen. Richard Lizurey  visited the post in nearby Carcassonne where Beltrame had been stationed since August 2017. He said the Lt. Col.'s "exceptional act" should serve as an inspiration to colleagues.Split-second decisions in a crisis can override protocol  he said."(A gendarme) has only a few seconds to act  to make the right decision " Lizurey said.He hailed police forces as "the cement of society" but said facing "terrorism is not an individual fight. It's a collective struggle."Moussa Azidad  a teacher in Trebes  said fellow Muslims must send a message to show they  too  must be present in the fight against terror.Advertisement"We are part of France  we are French ... so we have to  during very difficult times like these  we have to be there " he said.French President Emmanuel Macron has ordered a national memorial for Beltrame.Across the Atlantic  U.S. President Donald Trump said Sunday on Twitter the deadly shooting in southern France showed the need for stronger measures in the fight against the Islamic State group  including border security.Trump tweeted "France honors a great hero " citing the bravery of Beltrame. He went on to say there's "so much bravery around the world" in the fight against IS but added "Even stronger measures needed  especially at borders!"___Schaeffer reported from Trebes. Angela Charlton in Paris contributed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  Hundreds of people including friends  family and local officials attended a memorial service in Trebes on Sunday to honor the victims of the Islamist militant attack that killed a gendarme and three other people in southwest France last week.Gendarme Arnaud Beltrame  44  who voluntarily took the place of a female hostage during the supermarket siege on Friday in the tranquil town near the Pyrenees mountains  received a special tribute for what French President Emmanuel Macron had described as a heroic act.Beltrame's death was announced early on Saturday. A judicial source told Reuters his throat had been cut  referring to the autopsy results. He had also been shot during the attack but these wounds were not fatal  the source said.Other victims were a winegrower who had been in a car the attacker stole in Carcassonne  as well as a butcher and a shopper at the supermarket.Advertisement"A life given can not be lost. It transcends misfortune to rally us in unity  it calls us to believe in life stronger than death " regional Carcassonne and Narbonne Bishop Alain Planet  said at the ceremony  which was also attended by representatives of the police and the Muslim community.AdvertisementTRUMP TRIBUTEU.S. President Donald Trump emphasized Beltrame's heroic act on Sunday after sharing his "thoughts and prayers" with the victims of the attacks the previous day."France honors a great hero. Officer died after bravely swapping places with hostage in ISIS (Islamic State)-related terror attack " he said on Twitter.Flowers and messages in tribute to Beltrame were placed in front of the gendarmerie of the medieval city of Carcassonne  where he was based.Several cities  the National Assembly and police stations across France flew their flags at half-mast in his honor.Macron decided on Saturday that France would hold a national tribute to Beltrame in the coming days."He fell as a hero  giving up his life to halt the murderous enterprise of a jihadist terrorist " Macron said in a statement shortly before dawn on Saturday.The attacker was identified by authorities as Radouane Lakdim  a 25-year-old Moroccan-born French national from Carcassonne.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Beltrame had offered to trade places with a hostage the attacker was still holding in the supermarket  whereafter he took her place and left his mobile phone on a table  line open. When shots rang out  elite police stormed the building to kill the assailant  French prosecutor Francois Molin said on Friday.The Islamic State militant group on Friday claimed responsibility for the attack.Several hundred investigators devoted to the inquiry were still checking the claim and looking into possible help Lakdim could have received  Macron's office said.AdvertisementEXPLOSIVE DEVICESSearches at the attacker's home on Saturday showed notes referring to Islamic State in what appeared to be a will  as well as a phone and a computer  judicial sources said.Investigators also found three improvised explosive devices  a 7.65 mm handgun and a hunting knife in the supermarket  a source said.Police were still holding two people as part of the investigation - a woman connected to Lakdim and a 17-year-old male said to be one of his friends  the judicial source said.Since 2015 more than 240 people have been killed in France in attacks by assailants who either pledged allegiance to Islamic State or were inspired by the ultra-hardline group.France is part of a group of countries whose warplanes have been bombing Islamic State strongholds in Iraq and Syria  where in recent months IS has lost much of a self-proclaimed "caliphate" of territory it seized in 2014.Friday's assault was the first deadly Islamist attack in France since last October  when a man stabbed two young women to death in the port city of Marseille before soldiers killed him.Several attacks over the past year or more have targeted police and soldiers deployed in large numbers to protect civilians and patrol sensitive spots such as airports and train stations.(Reporting by Sybille de La Hamaide and Emmanuel Jarry; Additional reporting by Pascale Antonie; Editing by David Goodman and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy DECLAN WALSH and ERIC SCHMITTMARCH 25  2018
BENGHAZI  Libya — The United States military carried out its first ever drone strike against Qaeda militants in southern Libya this weekend  signaling a possibly significant expansion of the American counterterrorism campaign in the North African nation.Until now  the Pentagon had focused its counterterrorism strikes in Libya almost exclusively on Islamic State fighters and operatives farther north — eight since President Trump took office. In 2016  the military conducted nearly 500 airstrikes in the coastal city of Surt over several months to destroy the Islamic State’s stronghold there.But the attack on Saturday that the military’s Africa Command said had killed two militants — later identified by a spokeswoman as belonging to Al Qaeda’s branch in northwestern Africa — took place in the country’s southwest  a notorious haven for a deadly mix of Al Qaeda and other extremist groups that also operate in the Sahel region of Niger  Chad  Mali and Algeria.“This appears to be the continuation of expanding AFRICOM activity in Libya’s ungoverned areas ” said Deborah K. Jones  who served as United States ambassador to Libya from 2013 to 2015  referring to the Africa Command.AdvertisementA missile fired by the American drone struck a house in Ubari  435 miles south of Tripoli  in an area close to major oil fields that was wracked by violent ethnic feuding in 2015. Pictures in Libyan news media outlets showed a mutilated corpse lying in the rubble of a house  and a pair of shrapnel-ridden vehicles nearby. Local residents were quoted by the media outlets as saying the house had been frequented by foreigners.AdvertisementIn a statement  the military’s Africa Command said the strike had targeted militants with Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  an affiliate also known as AQIM  and had been carried out in coordination with the United Nations-backed unity government in Tripoli. “At this time  we assess no civilians were killed in this strike ” the statement said.The strike came as the Trump administration has been reassessing the American military commitment in North and West Africa after the ambush in Niger last fall that killed four American soldiers. The Pentagon has been preparing to fly armed drone missions from Niger’s capital  Niamey  a step that diplomats and analysts say could further widen the Pentagon’s shadow war in this part of the continent.In a sign of how the Pentagon has sought to obscure its operations in Libya and other parts of northwestern Africa  the Africa Command did not announce the strike on Saturday.It responded to questions from The New York Times late Saturday with a terse statement after media reports about the strike circulated in Libya. The statement did not identify where the drone had originated.Earlier this month  in response to a Times query  the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that Green Berets working with government forces in Niger had killed 11 Islamic State fighters in a firefight in December. No Americans were hurt in that fight  the Pentagon said.Ubari is at the intersection of the powerful criminal and jihadist currents that have washed across Libya in recent years. Roughly equidistant from Libya’s borders with Niger  Chad and Algeria  the area’s seminomadic tribesmen are heavily involved in the smuggling of weapons  drugs and illegal migrants through the lawless deserts of southern Libya.Some have allied with Islamist militias  including Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  which operates across Algeria  Mali  Niger and Libya.AdvertisementThe area erupted into conflict in 2014 when a century-old peace treaty between the Tuareg and Tebu ethnic groups collapsed over a dispute about control of the fuel smuggling trade. The fighting  which occurred independently of the broader struggle for control of Libya after the 2011 overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi  raged for a year  killing hundreds and leaving many families displaced.The Tebu and Tuareg eventually struck a peace agreement  and a neutral militia currently keeps the peace in Ubari  but tensions remain. In November  Turkish engineers working at the city power station were kidnapped by unidentified gunmen  as was a Pakistani engineer at the station who went missing this month  according to local news media reports.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While some Tebu groups have allied with the United Nations-backed government in Tripoli  Tuareg factions have allied with Qaeda  which is also believed to have profited from the trade in smuggled fuel.In the statement on Saturday  Robyn M. Mack  a spokeswoman for the United States Africa Command  said that it was still assessing the results of the strike and that the purpose had been “to deny terrorists freedom of action and degrade their ability to reconsolidate.”But the command did not answer several other questions: Who were the two dead militants  and why were they important enough to kill with an airstrike? What role  if any  did France play in a region of Libya in which it has also conducted counterterrorism operations? And  most significantly  to what extent is the attack the start of an escalating campaign against a broad spectrum of extremists in northwestern Africa  or a one-off strike against high-profile Qaeda operatives?“Beginning a concerted strike campaign against AQIM or other AQ elements in the Sahel  akin to what we are doing in Yemen and Somalia  would mark a significant expansion of our counterterrorism efforts ” said Luke Hartig  a former senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council during the Obama administration.“If this is going to be the start of a broader campaign  it would be helpful to hear more from the administration about the threat posed by AQIM and why it merits putting our people in harm’s way and conducting strikes ” Mr. Hartig said.A senior French security official said France had played no role in the strike  but added that Paris was “very happy of this continued commitment of the U.S. to counterterrorism in Libya.”Questions about whether the American military  under the Trump administration  is seeking to blur the expanding scope of operations in Africa were raised this month when it was revealed that the United States had carried out four airstrikes in Libya between September and January that Africa Command did not disclose at the time. The military has said it will acknowledge such missions if asked about them  even if it does not affirmatively disclose them in a news release.AdvertisementMs. Mack said that Saturday’s attack was the first airstrike the United States had conducted against Al Qaeda in Libya. In fact  the United States conducted an airstrike in eastern Libya in June 2015 against Mokhtar Belmokhtar  the mastermind of the 2013 terrorist seizure of an Algerian gas plant that left 38 foreign hostages dead. Mr. Belmokhtar was a longtime Qaeda operative with ties to senior Qaeda leadership in Pakistan. Western intelligence officials today remain divided over whether he is dead.American efforts to hunt down Islamists in Libya’s vast deserts rely heavily on surveillance and airpower but also on alliances with the armed groups vying for control of Libya. Mohamed El Sallak  a spokesman for the United Nations-backed unity government  said on Twitter that the attack in Ubari on Saturday was part of the “strategic cooperation between Libya and the United States in the fight against terrorism.”But in Ubari  armed Tebu and Tuareg groups have sided with different sides in Libya’s chaotic struggle  and the unity government is by no means the dominant player.Some control a stretch of southern border  while others have allied with militias from the coastal cities of Misurata and Benghazi. The rising force now in the south is Field Marshal Khalifa Hifter  the commander of the Libyan National Army based in Benghazi.Since his forces ousted the last Islamist militias from Benghazi in December  Mr. Hifter has focused on the south  where he exerts influence through his fleet of aging warplanes and alliances with local armed groups.In Sebha  the largest southern city  Mr. Hifter and the rival United Nations-backed government are vying for control through local proxies. In Ubari  110 miles to the west  Mr. Hifter has allied with an ethnically mixed militia that is composed of former Qaddafi loyalists and more recent recruits.Declan Walsh reported from Benghazi  and Eric Schmitt from Washington. Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting from Berlin.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Strike in Libya Targeted Qaeda Haven.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  4:59 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Jaish al-Islam  the last rebel faction in control of territory in eastern Ghouta  said on Sunday it would not withdraw to other opposition-held parts of Syria as other rebel groups have done under deals negotiated with Syrian government ally Russia.After a month-long ground and air offensive and deals under which rebel fighters agreed to be transported to northern Syria  pro-Syrian government forces have taken control of most of what had been the last major rebel stronghold near the capital Damascus.Only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.Jaish al-Islam is currently negotiating with Russia over the future of the area and the people in it."Today the negotiations taking place ... are to stay in Ghouta and not to leave it " Jaish al-Islam's military spokesman Hamza Birqdar told Istanbul-based Syrian radio station Radio al-Kul via Skype from eastern Ghouta.AdvertisementBirqdar accused the Syrian government of trying to change the demographic balance of the eastern Ghouta by forcing out locals and replacing them with its allies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said in the negotiations with Russia Jaish al-Islam is asking for guarantees that what remains of the local population will not be forced out.AdvertisementBoth Ahrar al-Sham and Failq al-Rahman  two other rebel groups formerly in charge of pockets of the eastern Ghouta  have accepted deals under which they withdraw to opposition-held Idlib in northwest Syria.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington  editing by David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  12:47 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Hundreds of Syrian rebels and civilians were bused out of a second pocket of the besieged eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Sunday after rebels agreed to leave several towns and villages after years of siege and weeks of heavy bombardment.Close to 900 people were evacuated from the southernmost of three eastern Ghouta pockets on Sunday  according to state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV  following some 1 000 fighters  family members  and other civilians who departed late Saturday  as reported by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.They left in a fleet of buses  including the lime-green municipal buses that have come to symbolize defeat for the Syrian opposition and the rearrangement of Syria's population as the government takes back control of cities around the country.Fighters dressed in fatigues slumped in their seats and hid their faces from roadside news cameras  while children peered out of the open windows.AdvertisementMany are unsure if they will ever be able to return."I'm going to visit the tomb of my father (for the) last time " tweeted Muhammad Najem  a 15 year-old boy who said he was going to board the buses to Idlib  a rebel-stronghold in northwest Syria.Advertisement"We are going on an unknown journey to the refugee camps in Idlib. We don't know what is our fate there " said Najem in a separate video tweet.The evacuation is modeled on others in which rebels have surrendered swathes of territory around the capital and other major cities after years of siege and bombardment at the hands of President Bashar Assad's forces. They have been helpless against the government's overwhelming artillery and air power  boosted with support from Iran's Revolutionary Guard and Russia's air force.Rebels belonging to the Ahrar al-Sham and Faylaq al-Rahman factions began evacuating the central pocket of eastern Ghouta on Thursday. Some 7 000 people left the town of Harasta  bound for Idlib.Fighters loyal to the al-Qaida-linked Levant Liberation Committee  known by its Arabic acronym HTS  also began evacuating eastern Ghouta on Sunday  according to the Observatory.Rebels with the powerful Islam Army faction still controlled Douma  the largest town in eastern Ghouta  and the third and last pocket in the eastern Ghouta enclave. A delegation representing the town was in talks with Russia to reach a settlement that would have Russian forces deployed inside.Charities supporting the medical sector in Syrian opposition areas say evacuees were arriving to Hama  on the road to Idlib  bearing the marks of trauma  malnutrition  and other afflictions commensurate with the siege of eastern Ghouta. For four weeks  residents had to hide in overcrowded basements as the government shelled and bombed the region without pause.The Union of Medical Care and Relief Organizations said children and adults were arriving with intestinal infections  hepatitis  skin diseases and trauma injuries.AdvertisementBasel Termanini of the Syrian American Medical Society told journalists that local hospitals were filling up quickly and patients requiring critical care were being transferred to Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 1 600 people were killed in the five weeks that the government assaulted eastern Ghouta  after holding it under siege since 2013  according to the Observatory.The Syrian government is giving rebels and male residents the choice of laying down their weapons and signing up for military conscription or leaving with their families to rebel-held territories elsewhere in Syria. Tens of thousands across Syria have elected to leave with their families instead of serving or risking arrest by the state's notorious security services.Critics say the evacuations amount to forced displacement that legitimizes the government's brutal siege tactics  which have deprived hundreds of thousands of civilians of food and medicine and subjected them to years of violence. U.N. inquiries and top U.N. officials have likened the tactics to war crimes and crimes against humanity.The U.N. and the International Committee of the Red Cross have refused to facilitate the eastern Ghouta evacuations.Close to 11 million people have been forced from their homes by the violence that has swept through the country since the government began cracking down on Arab Spring protests in 2011.The government has restored its authority in most of the major population centers across the country  but there are few indications that refugees and the internally displaced are returning to their homes in large numbers.Many of the cities and towns once held by the opposition have been razed by government forces  and resources and funding for reconstruction are scarce.Meanwhile  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said his country's forces were aiming to take the town of Tel Rifaat in north Syria  after Turkey and allied Syrian opposition forces captured the Afrin region from a Syrian Kurdish militia.AdvertisementTurkey says the People's Protection Units  known by the Kurdish acronym YPG  is a threat to its national security. The YPG still holds Tel Rifaat  approximately 21 kilometers (13 miles) southeast of Afrin. It also holds a vast expanse of frontier territory along northeast Syria. This area is not linked with the Afrin region. The U.S. has been an ally of the YPG in the war on Islamic State group  and it maintains military bases and a troop presence with the YPG in the northeast. But the Pentagon has refused to interfere with NATO-member Turkey's military operations in Afrin.Questions remain over whether the U.S. will allow Turkey and allied Syrian forces to advance on the YPG in Manbij  another town near the frontier. Turkish daily Hurriyet newspaper  quoting Syrian opposition commander Mohammed Shibil  said allied Syrian opposition forces were starting drills and preparations to oust the YPG.___Associated Press writer Zeynep Bilginsoy in Istanbul contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:47 A.M. E.D.T.
KABUL —  Russia has rejected comments by NATO's top commander in Afghanistan that it has been supporting and even supplying weapons to the Taliban  in a clash of words that underlines growing tension over Moscow's involvement in the conflict.In an interview with the BBC last week  General John Nicholson said that Russia had been acting to undermine U.S. efforts in Afghanistan despite shared interests in fighting terrorism and narcotics  with indications that Moscow was providing financial support and even arms."We've had weapons brought to this headquarters and given to us by Afghan leaders and said this was given by the Russians to the Taliban " he said.A statement from the Russian embassy in Kabul dismissed the comments as "idle gossip"  repeating previous denials by Russian officials.Advertisement"Once again  we insist that such statements are absolutely baseless and appeal to officials not to talk nonsense " the embassy said.AdvertisementU.S. commanders  including Nicholson  have said on several occasions over the past year that Russia may be supplying arms to the Taliban although no confirmed evidence has so far been made public.However  Nicholson's comments were unusually blunt and came in a context of growing tensions between NATO members and Moscow over the case of Sergei Skripal  a former intelligence agent found poisoned with a rare nerve agent in Britain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Russian officials have said that their limited contacts with the Taliban were aimed at encouraging peace talks and ensuring the safety of Russian citizens. Moscow has offered to help coordinate peace talks in Afghanistan.Taliban officials have told Reuters that the group has had significant contacts with Moscow since at least 2007  adding that Russian involvement did not extend beyond "moral and political support".Moscow has been critical of the United States and NATO over their handling of the war in Afghanistan  but Russia initially helped provide helicopters for the Afghan military and agreed to a supply route for coalition materials through Russia.Most of that cooperation has fallen apart as relations between Russia and the West deteriorated in recent years over the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria.(Reporting by James Mackenzie; Editing by Richard Borsuk)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  6:14 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  More than 5 000 Syrian rebel fighters and their families boarded  77 buses on Sunday to wait to be taken from eastern Ghouta  Syrian state media said  in the second day of an evacuation from their former stronghold near the capital Damascus.The main rebel group in the Arbeen pocket of eastern Ghouta  Failaq al-Rahman  reached a deal on Friday under which fighters agreed to surrender the enclave to the government and be transported to an opposition-held area in northwest Syria.Around 1 000 fighters and their relatives left on Saturday  Syrian state news agency SANA said.After a month-long ground and air offensive and evacuation deals with Failaq al-Rahman and another rebel group  Ahrar al-Sham  pro-Syrian government forces control most of what had been a major rebel stronghold  just 15 km (9 miles) east of Damascus.Before the recent offensive  the suburb had an estimated population of 400 000. It had been under siege by government forces since 2013 and only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.AdvertisementThere have been negotiations but no deal yet between government forces and the main faction controlling Douma  Jaish al-Islam  which has said it wants to stay.AdvertisementTens of thousands of civilians have streamed out of Douma on foot during lulls in the bombardment of the past week. Hundreds more civilians left the area on Sunday  carrying children and hauling their belongings.Russian news agency RIA  citing the Russian defense ministry  said more than 108 000 civilians in total had left eastern Ghouta since it said a month ago that it would oversee daily humanitarian pauses in the fighting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.A military source told Reuters evacuation of Failaq al-Rahman fighters  who are coming from Zamalka  Jobar  Ein Terma and Arbeen towns  will take a couple of days to complete. They began boarding the buses on Sunday morning  but have not yet set off.State TV showed lines of green buses waiting. A young child could be seen dangling a bandaged hand out of a bus window. Some men covered their faces with scarves as they sat waiting.A number of fighters and family members who were transported last week from Harasta and Arbeen have arrived in rebel-held territory to the north  where many are receiving medical care  the opposition-run Hama health directorate said in a statement.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Daniel Wallis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday that Turkey had begun operations in Iraq's Sinjar region  an area where it has threatened a military incursion  two days after sources said Kurdish PKK militants would withdraw from the area."We said we would go into Sinjar. Now operations have begun there. The fight is internal and external " Erdogan told a crowd in the Black Sea province of Trabzon  without elaborating on what operations he was referring to.Iraq's Joint Operations Command denied that any foreign forces had crossed the border into Iraq."The operations command confirmed that the situation in Nineveh  Sinjar and the border areas was under the control of Iraqi security forces and there is no reason for troops to cross the Iraqi border into those areas " it said in a statement.Sources in Sinjar said there was no unusual military activity in the area on Sunday.The Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) has waged an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. President Tayyip Erdogan said last week they were creating a new base in Sinjar  and that Turkish forces would attack if necessary.AdvertisementSources in northern Iraq said on Friday the PKK would withdraw from Sinjar  where it gained a foothold in 2014 after coming to the aid of the Yazidi minority community  who were under attack by Islamic State militants.AdvertisementThe PKK  considered a terrorist organisation by Turkey  the European Union and the United States  has for decades been based in Iraq's Qandil mountain range  near the border with Iran.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkish troops and their rebel allies swept into northwest Syria's Afrin town this month  the culmination of an eight-week campaign to drive Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters from the region. Turkey sees the YPG as terrorists and an extension of the outlawed PKK.Erdogan has vowed to extend the military operation along the Syrian border and on Sunday said the Turkish-led forces would take control of the town of Tel Rifaat.Many civilians and YPG have gathered in and around Tel Rifaat after Turkey seized control of Afrin. It is a Kurdish-controlled enclave  cut off from a larger expanse of Kurdish territory in the northeast of Syria.The United Nations said last week that around 75 000 people had been displaced to Tel Rifaat and surrounding areas from Afrin  and more were expected to come.(Additional reporting by Lisa Barrington in Beirut and Raya Jalabi in Baghdad.; Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  9:44 A.M. E.D.T.
TREBES  France —  A French bishop paid tribute Sunday to a police officer who lost his life after swapping himself with a supermarket employee held hostage by an Islamist extremist  saying his heroic sacrifice helped save the nation.Survivors and families of the four victims of Friday's rampage of attacks packed the Saint-Etienne-de-Trebes church for the special Mass honoring Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame.Members of the region's Muslim community were among those mourning at the special Palm Sunday service in the southern town of Trebes  near the medieval city of Carcassonne. The manager of the supermarket sat in the front row  alongside her husband  the town mayor.The bishop of Carcassonne and Narbonne  Alain Planet  hailed Beltrame's "extraordinary act  extraordinary devotion."Advertisement"It is better that one man dies for the people  so that the nation doesn't perish " the bishop said. He added that the horrific slayings have forced everyone to confront the reality of death and suffering across the world  noting turmoil in Sudan  the Middle East and elsewhere.AdvertisementThe Islamic State group claimed that the attacker — Radouane Lakdim  25  born in Morocco — was answering its call to target nations in the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS militants in Syria and Iraq.Lakdim was killed by police Friday after Beltrame helped them storm the market. Lakdim also killed the supermarket's butcher  a shopper and a passenger in the car that Lakdim had hijacked earlier in nearby Carcassonne. He shot at riot police  one of whom was injured  then headed to the supermarket in Trebes.Two people have been detained for questioning in the case.French police searching Lakdim's home in Carcassonne found notes referring to the Islamic State group that appeared to be a final testament  a judicial official said on Saturday. Also found were a computer and telephone.Three homemade explosive devices  a handgun and a hunting knife were discovered inside the supermarket  suggesting the attacker may have had still deadlier plans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The head of France's National Gendarmerie  Gen. Richard Lizurey  visited the post in nearby Carcassonne where Beltrame had been stationed since August 2017. He said the Lt. Col.'s "exceptional act" should serve as an inspiration to colleagues.Split-second decisions in a crisis can override protocol  he said."(A gendarme) has only a few seconds to act  to make the right decision " Lizurey said.He hailed police forces as "the cement of society" but said facing "terrorism is not an individual fight. It's a collective struggle."Moussa Azidad  a teacher in Trebes  said fellow Muslims must send a message to show they  too  must be present in the fight against terror.Advertisement"We are part of France  we are French ... so we have to  during very difficult times like these  we have to be there " he said.French President Emmanuel Macron has ordered a national memorial for Beltrame.Across the Atlantic  U.S. President Donald Trump said Sunday on Twitter the deadly shooting in southern France showed the need for stronger measures in the fight against the Islamic State group  including border security.Trump tweeted "France honors a great hero " citing the bravery of Beltrame. He went on to say there's "so much bravery around the world" in the fight against IS but added "Even stronger measures needed  especially at borders!"___Schaeffer reported from Trebes. Angela Charlton in Paris contributed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  Hundreds of people including friends  family and local officials attended a memorial service in Trebes on Sunday to honor the victims of the Islamist militant attack that killed a gendarme and three other people in southwest France last week.Gendarme Arnaud Beltrame  44  who voluntarily took the place of a female hostage during the supermarket siege on Friday in the tranquil town near the Pyrenees mountains  received a special tribute for what French President Emmanuel Macron had described as a heroic act.Beltrame's death was announced early on Saturday. A judicial source told Reuters his throat had been cut  referring to the autopsy results. He had also been shot during the attack but these wounds were not fatal  the source said.Other victims were a winegrower who had been in a car the attacker stole in Carcassonne  as well as a butcher and a shopper at the supermarket.Advertisement"A life given can not be lost. It transcends misfortune to rally us in unity  it calls us to believe in life stronger than death " regional Carcassonne and Narbonne Bishop Alain Planet  said at the ceremony  which was also attended by representatives of the police and the Muslim community.AdvertisementTRUMP TRIBUTEU.S. President Donald Trump emphasized Beltrame's heroic act on Sunday after sharing his "thoughts and prayers" with the victims of the attacks the previous day."France honors a great hero. Officer died after bravely swapping places with hostage in ISIS (Islamic State)-related terror attack " he said on Twitter.Flowers and messages in tribute to Beltrame were placed in front of the gendarmerie of the medieval city of Carcassonne  where he was based.Several cities  the National Assembly and police stations across France flew their flags at half-mast in his honor.Macron decided on Saturday that France would hold a national tribute to Beltrame in the coming days."He fell as a hero  giving up his life to halt the murderous enterprise of a jihadist terrorist " Macron said in a statement shortly before dawn on Saturday.The attacker was identified by authorities as Radouane Lakdim  a 25-year-old Moroccan-born French national from Carcassonne.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Beltrame had offered to trade places with a hostage the attacker was still holding in the supermarket  whereafter he took her place and left his mobile phone on a table  line open. When shots rang out  elite police stormed the building to kill the assailant  French prosecutor Francois Molin said on Friday.The Islamic State militant group on Friday claimed responsibility for the attack.Several hundred investigators devoted to the inquiry were still checking the claim and looking into possible help Lakdim could have received  Macron's office said.AdvertisementEXPLOSIVE DEVICESSearches at the attacker's home on Saturday showed notes referring to Islamic State in what appeared to be a will  as well as a phone and a computer  judicial sources said.Investigators also found three improvised explosive devices  a 7.65 mm handgun and a hunting knife in the supermarket  a source said.Police were still holding two people as part of the investigation - a woman connected to Lakdim and a 17-year-old male said to be one of his friends  the judicial source said.Since 2015 more than 240 people have been killed in France in attacks by assailants who either pledged allegiance to Islamic State or were inspired by the ultra-hardline group.France is part of a group of countries whose warplanes have been bombing Islamic State strongholds in Iraq and Syria  where in recent months IS has lost much of a self-proclaimed "caliphate" of territory it seized in 2014.Friday's assault was the first deadly Islamist attack in France since last October  when a man stabbed two young women to death in the port city of Marseille before soldiers killed him.Several attacks over the past year or more have targeted police and soldiers deployed in large numbers to protect civilians and patrol sensitive spots such as airports and train stations.(Reporting by Sybille de La Hamaide and Emmanuel Jarry; Additional reporting by Pascale Antonie; Editing by David Goodman and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »