AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN  MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MARK LANDLERMARCH 25  2018
President Trump has decided not to hire two lawyers who were announced last week as new additions to his legal team  leaving him with a shrinking stable of lawyers as the investigation by the special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  enters an intense phase.“The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the president’s special counsel legal team ” Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer  Jay Sekulow  said in a statement on Sunday morning. “However  those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.”The upheaval on the legal team comes at a critical time for Mr. Trump. The president’s former lead lawyer  John Dowd  quit the team on Thursday  just as Mr. Trump is deciding whether to sit with Mr. Mueller for an interview. At the moment  Mr. Sekulow is the president’s chief outside lawyer  as Mr. Trump’s longtime New York lawyer  Marc E. Kasowitz  remains on the periphery.While Mr. Trump’s lawyers  including Mr. Dowd  had told the president that the investigation would be over by this point  it seems to be accelerating  as Mr. Mueller appears to be looking into a wide range of matters related to Mr. Trump’s corporate activities  his 2016 campaign  his associates and his time in office.AdvertisementThe president met with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing  who are married  in recent days to discuss the possibility that they would join his legal team in the Mueller case. According to two people told of details about the meeting  the president did not believe he had personal chemistry with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.AdvertisementBut beyond that  Ms. Toensing is representing Mark Corallo  who was the spokesman for Mr. Trump’s legal team in 2017 before they parted ways.Mr. Corallo has told investigators that he was concerned that a close aide to Mr. Trump  Hope Hicks  may have been planning to obstruct justice during the drafting of a statement about a meeting between a Russian lawyer and Donald Trump Jr. during the campaign.Ms. Hicks’s lawyer has strongly denied that suggestion  and White House aides said Mr. Corallo’s assertion had come up in discussions with the president as he weighed whether to go ahead with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.Mr. diGenova had been expected to serve as an outspoken voice for the president as Mr. Trump has increased his attacks on Mr. Mueller. Mr. diGenova has endorsed the notion that a secretive group of F.B.I. agents concocted the Russia investigation as a way to keep Mr. Trump from becoming president  a theory with little supporting evidence.“There was a brazen plot to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and  if she didn’t win the election  to then frame Donald Trump with a falsely created crime ” he had told Fox News in January.Earlier on Sunday  Mr. Trump took to Twitter from his Florida resort to insist that he faced no problems finding lawyers to represent him in the Russia investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Fame & fortune will never be turned down by a lawyer  though some are conflicted ” Mr. Trump said in a tweet.The president insisted that “many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case ” and that reports of flux on his team were a “Fake News narrative.” Adding new lawyers  he said  would be costly because they would take months “to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more).”Advertisement“I am very happy with my existing team ” he added.The news about the canceled legal appointments came as White House officials were girding themselves for an interview on Sunday evening on the CBS program “60 Minutes” with the porn star known as Stormy Daniels.Ms. Daniels claims to have had a sexual relationship with Mr. Trump  and she signed a nondisclosure agreement with one of his lawyers  Michael D. Cohen  during the 2016 campaign.Mr. Trump and his wife  Melania  will be far apart by the time the interview airs. The White House announced that the first lady would stay behind in Florida when the president returned to Washington on Sunday afternoon. A spokeswoman  Lindsay Walters  said it was “their tradition for spring break.”On Sunday  one of Mr. Trump’s closest friends  Christopher Ruddy  said the president was “perplexed” by reports of turmoil in his administration. Speaking on the ABC program “This Week ” Mr. Ruddy  who is the chief executive of Newsmax Media  said he expected the chief of staff  John F. Kelly  to stay in his job  despite the president’s chafing at what he sees as the restrictions Mr. Kelly has placed on him.But Mr. Ruddy  citing sources other than the president  said he expected the secretary of veterans affairs  David Shulkin  to leave the cabinet soon. Dr. Shulkin’s departure has been widely expected. And Mr. Ruddy played down reports that Ben Carson  the secretary of housing and urban development  was in trouble  despite Mr. Trump’s private criticism of Mr. Carson to advisers after revelations of excessive spending on an office dining room set.Ashleigh F. Barry  a spokeswoman for Dr. Shulkin  said on Sunday that there were no personnel changes at the department to announce.“President Trump has made clear that he expects the department’s sole focus to be on providing quality care to America’s veterans  who have sacrificed to keep this country free and safe ” she said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Wendy R. ShermanJohn R. Bolton  President Trump’s new national security adviser  has never met a war he didn’t want.Mr. Bolton defends the 2003 invasion of Iraq and he advocates attacking North Korea  too. He believes that the United States should have bombed Iran years ago  rather than negotiating an international agreement to prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon.Since going into force in 2016  that deal has blocked Tehran’s path to a nuclear weapon and prevented a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. By every account  Iran is complying with the agreement  has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon and has subjected itself to rigorous monitoring and verification.And yet  Mr. Trump appears committed to killing it. Mr. Bolton’s appointment has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short. May 12 is the next deadline by which the president has to extend sanction waivers and certify Iran’s compliance to preserve the accord. If he doesn’t  the fallout will be profound.First and foremost  Iran most likely will move quickly  without any restraint  to enrich uranium  the fissile material needed for nuclear weapons. The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps  the leading edge of Iran’s nefarious actions  will declare that the West can never be trusted and will use the decision to undermine the less hard-line president  Hassan Rouhani.The destruction of the nuclear deal will also increase the Revolutionary Guards’ malign activities in the Middle East  making the challenge to Israel’s security and to America’s other allies even more difficult. These activities  in turn  will increase American calls for military action against Iran as the only viable option  since no Iranian will be able to enter new negotiations with the United States any time soon.The march to military conflict will be hard to stop  especially with Mr. Bolton leading the National Security Council.Beyond this horror show  the decision to destroy the Iran deal will also pound yet another nail into the coffin of the trans-Atlantic relationship. Mr. Trump has so far laid the task of “fixing” the deal at the feet of Britain  France and Germany  America’s European partners in the nuclear negotiations. He has demanded that they agree to new language on Iran’s ballistic missile development and inspections of Iranian military installations  and he has asked for a change in the timeline of the nuclear deal so that the restrictions on Iran will not expire. In essence  he has asked Europe for help changing the terms of the deal itself.The Europeans’ greatest objection is on the issue of the “sunset.” They believe  accurately  that Iran has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon  is complying with the terms of the deal  and there are mechanisms in the deal to both review and sanction if it becomes necessary. European diplomats rightly feel that Mr. Trump is demanding that they solve a political problem he created by campaigning against the deal.Mr. Trump’s nixing of the deal won’t do America much good with the rest of the world  either. Important allies and partners  like South Korea  Japan and India  greatly reduced their reliance on Iranian oil in service to the negotiations that produced the nuclear agreement. Sabotaging the deal will sour these relationships. Moreover  these countries will balk at economic sanctions on Iran that are reimposed in the absence of diplomacy. Mr. Trump may get some level of compliance thanks to the reach of American banking sanctions  but he will also spawn distrust and resentment  and push other countries closer to China as a more reliable financial partner.Killing the Iran deal will also be an early blow to the forthcoming nuclear negotiations with North Korea. Mr. Trump most likely believes that nixing the Iran accord will somehow show North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  that he does not make “bad” deals. In reality  Mr. Kim will wonder if he can believe in any agreement offered by an American president.Finally  if the White House rips up the Iran deal  it will give the United States exactly what it needs least: international isolation. The deal was negotiated by the United States  Britain  France  Germany  Russia and China  coordinated by the European Union  and endorsed by a 15-to-0 vote in the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Trump will not isolate Iran by nixing the deal; he will isolate America and lead its partners and allies to consider China and Russia as more dependable  predictable partners  even absent Western values.Nothing about this decision will increase American security. It will be a leap into the unknown  with devastating consequences. Once lost  the hard-won trust and faith in America will not be easily regained. Mr. Bolton and Mr. Trump should not make this huge mistake.Wendy R. Sherman  a former under secretary of state for political affairs  was the United States’ lead negotiator for the Iran nuclear agreement. She is the author of the forthcoming “Not For the Faint of Heart: Lessons in Courage  Power and Persistence.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JIM RUTENBERGMARCH 25  2018
The pornographic film star Stephanie Clifford told “60 Minutes” that she struck a $130 000 deal for her silence about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump in the final days of the 2016 campaign because she was worried about her safety and that of her young daughter.That concern  she told “60 Minutes” in an interview broadcast on Sunday night  was based on a threat she received in 2011 from a man who approached her in Las Vegas. She said the threat came after she sold her story about Mr. Trump for $15 000 to Bauer Publishing  which finally published the interview in its magazine InTouch early this year. Bauer had initially decided not to run it after Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer  Michael Cohen  threatened to sue.“I was in a parking lot going to a fitness class with my infant daughter ” she told the “60 Minutes” correspondent and CNN host Anderson Cooper. “And a guy walked up on me and said to me  ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.’ And he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said  ‘That’s a beautiful little girl  it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ ”Ms. Clifford said she did not go to the police after the threat  but when  years later  a lawyer came to her with an offer brokered by Mr. Cohen in the final days of the presidential campaign  she took it because “I was concerned for my family and their safety.”Advertisement(ALSO READ: Our profile of Stormy Daniels  the president’s unlikely foe  “not someone to be underestimated.”)AdvertisementMs. Clifford’s interview — which made for the most anticipated episode of “60 Minutes” in recent memory — was something of a national event  one marked by viewing parties and “Dark and Stormy” cocktail specials at bars  a nod to her professional name  Stormy Daniels.And it was a quintessential moment of the Trump presidency — a tabloid-ready scandal and must-see television — that carried potential legal implications for Mr. Trump and his longtime lawyer and personal fixer  Michael Cohen. Until Sunday’s broadcast  Ms. Clifford had kept her public appearances to the strip club circuit — what she called her “Make America Horny Again” tour. But  in speaking with Mr. Cooper  she chose businesslike attire that was in keeping with the seriousness of the legal case she is making  that she had been silenced in a cover-up effort to protect the presidential prospects of Mr. Trump.Ms. Clifford is one of two women who have recently filed suit seeking to get out of agreements they said they entered during the last stretch of the 2016 campaign to give up the rights to their stories about what they have said were affairs with Mr. Trump. The other woman  a former Playmate named Karen McDougal  sold her rights to the company that owns The National Enquirer — which never published it — and spoke to Mr. Cooper on CNN on Thursday. Representatives for Mr. Trump have denied that he had an affair with either woman.Both cases present potentially consequential legal challenges for Mr. Trump  forming the basis of complaints that have been filed with the Federal Election Commission and the Justice Department saying that the payments constituted illegal campaign contributions.Ms. Clifford’s appearance on “60 Minutes” showed that the effort to keep her story from public view had failed spectacularly — just as statements from Mr. Cohen that he would seek millions of dollars in damages from her for violating a hush agreement had not kept her from appearing on what is often the highest-rated program in television news.Shortly after “60 Minutes” aired  a lawyer for Mr. Cohen  Brent H. Blakely  sent a cease-and-desist letter to Ms. Clifford’s new lawyer  Michael Avenatti. It accused him and Ms. Clifford of defaming Mr. Cohen in relation to the threat she says she received and demanding a public apology.“Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident  and does not even believe that any such person exists  or that such incident ever occurred ” Mr. Blakely wrote. “You and your client’s false statements about Mr. Cohen accuse him of criminal conduct and constitute  among other things  libel per se and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”AdvertisementDuring the interview Mr. Cooper asked Ms. Clifford why she was taking the legally risky route of sitting for a nationally televised interview. “I was perfectly fine saying nothing at all  but I’m not O.K. with being made out to be a liar ” she said.Ms. Clifford had first threatened to speak out in February  after  she said  Mr. Cohen broke his part of the previously secret 2016 agreement by telling The New York Times that he had paid the $130 000 from his own pocket. He has denied Mr. Trump had an affair with Ms. Clifford.Accusations  payoffs and lawsuits: Here’s a guide to the latest White House scandal  which involves a porn star named Stormy Daniels.The White House was quiet ahead of the airing of Ms. Clifford’s interview  though an ally of Mr. Trump’s  the Newsmax founder and editor in chief  Christopher Ruddy  told ABC News earlier on Sunday that Mr. Trump considered her story “a political hoax.” Mr. Trump spent the evening before the interview dining at his club in Palm Beach  Mar-a-Lago  with Mr. Cohen.Ms. Clifford said during the interview that while she had seen Mr. Trump more than once  she had had sex with him a single time  unprotected. That happened shortly after they met at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe in 2006. (Ms. McDougal has also said that she  too  was intimate with Mr. Trump during that event.) Mr. Trump was 60 at the time; Ms. Clifford was 27.Ms. Clifford said that Mr. Trump had invited her to his hotel suite for dinner  and that their banter began with him showing her a magazine cover featuring his photograph. “I was like  ‘Someone should take that magazine and spank you with it ”’ she said. “So he turned around and pulled his pants down a little — you know  had underwear on and stuff  and I just gave him a couple swats.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was done in a joking manner  she said  and the flirtation — which included Mr. Trump comparing Ms. Clifford to his daughter — led to intercourse  though  she said  she had not been particularly attracted to Mr. Trump and had not wanted to have sex with him. (She said she nonetheless went along of her own accord.)“He said that it was great ” she said  and told her he had had “a great evening  and it was nothing like he expected  that I really surprised him  that a lot of people must underestimate me — that he hoped that I would be willing to see him again  and that we would discuss the things we had talked about earlier in the evening.”Mr. Trump  she said  had raised the possibility that he get her onto his reality show  “Celebrity Apprentice ” but it would not come to be.She said that he had invited her to his Beverly Hills Hotel bungalow in 2007 to fill her in on that promise. The entertainment for the night  she said  was a “Shark Week” documentary. Mr. Trump  she said  wanted to have sex but this time she did not go along with it  and when he did not have an answer for her about being on the show  she left. She said he told her over the phone a month later that he would not be able to get her onto the program and that was effectively the end of it.AdvertisementBut when her story threatened to surface again in 2016  Ms. Clifford said  her lawyer  Keith Davidson  called her. “I think I have the best deal for you ” she said Mr. Davidson told her  presenting Mr. Cohen’s offer. (Mr. Davidson had also represented Ms. McDougal.)When Mr. Cooper said some viewers would be skeptical that Ms. Clifford had made her decision because of a threat made years earlier  she said she “didn’t even negotiate” and “just quickly said ‘yes ’ to this very  you know  strict contract  and what most people will agree with me  extremely low number.” Ms. Clifford also said that she had “turned down a large payday multiple times.”Ms. Clifford said that she can remember the man’s face to this day and would recognize him immediately. Mr. Avenatti said earlier this month that she had been threatened  although he did not provide any details. At the time  the White House press secretary  Sarah Huckabee Sanders  said  “Obviously we take the safety and security of any person seriously  certainly would condemn anyone threatening any individual.”When the story about the payoff first broke earlier this year  Ms. Clifford had signed a statement emphatically denying that an affair had taken place. She told Mr. Cooper that she had been told that if she failed to sign it  “they can make your life hell in many different ways.” That sentiment  she indicated  was based on the terms of the agreement  not on any new threat of physical violence  though  she said  she felt both “intimidated” and “bullied.”Lawyers for Mr. Cohen have said that Ms. Clifford faces $20 million in penalties for violating an agreement to remain quiet and that the agreement was still binding.Ms. Clifford’s suit hinges on Mr. Avenatti’s argument that the agreement is invalid because Mr. Trump had not signed it. Mr. Cohen signed the agreement  representing the Delaware shell company Essential Consultants  through which he paid Ms. Clifford.Mr. Cohen has denied any involvement by the Trump Organization or the Trump campaign. But Mr. Avenatti  through his various media appearances  has been trying to build a case that Mr. Cohen was acting in his capacity as a lawyer at the Trump Organization when he worked on the agreement. He presented new evidence on “60 Minutes”: a FedEx envelope showing that Mr. Davidson had sent the contract to Mr. Cohen at his office at the Trump Organization  and addressed a cover letter to him in his official Trump Organization capacity.Mr. Cooper pressed Ms. Clifford on whether she was not coming forward to cash in on her affair now that Mr. Trump had become president. She did not apologize for the extra money she says she is already making as a dancer because of the surrounding publicity  but noted that she was also opening herself up to real financial risk.Asked what she would tell the president if he was watching  she said  “He knows I’m telling the truth.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Adult Film Star Feared for Safety Of Daughter After Trump Threat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  2:08 P.M. E.D.T.
JERUSALEM —  West Bank settlement construction surged during the first year of the Trump presidency  an Israeli monitoring group said Sunday  releasing data that added to Palestinian mistrust of the American administration.Peace Now said that Israel began construction of 2 783 settlement homes in 2017. That was about 17 percent higher than the annual average since Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took office in 2009.It said that 78 percent of the new homes were in outlying settlements that would likely have to be evacuated if a Palestinian state is established. And 234 units  or 8 percent  were in tiny outposts that are not even authorized by Israel  it said.The Palestinians and most of the international community consider Israeli settlements to be illegal and obstacles to peace. Over 600 000 settlers now live in the West Bank and east Jerusalem  areas captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war and claimed by the Palestinians for their future state.AdvertisementWhile a string of Republican and Democratic presidents have opposed settlement construction  Trump has taken a softer line. He has asked Israel to show restraint at times  but avoided the strong condemnations voiced by his predecessors. His Mideast peace team  led by his son in law Jared Kushner  is dominated by people with close ties to the settlement movement.AdvertisementPeace Now said its data is collected through aerial surveys and inspections by monitors on the ground. In its report  Peace Now stopped short of blaming the jump in construction exclusively on White House policies.Netanyahu has been a strong supporter of the settlements throughout his career  and his coalition is dominated by religious and nationalist hardliners aligned with the settlement movement and who oppose Palestinian independence. Facing a growing list of corruption investigations  Netanyahu has also appealed to his hard-line base."The steady pace of construction and building deep in the West Bank attest to Prime Minister Netanyahu's steadfast abetting of the settlement enterprise " the report said. "It is also apparent that the new U.S. presidency in 2017 had no marginal deterrent effect on these Israeli unilateral moves."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The West Bank settler movement has issued its own data showing growth in their communities. Last month  a settler leader  using official government data  said the West Bank settler population grew 3.4 percent last year  nearly double the growth rate of Israel's overall population  to more than 435 000 people.For the Palestinians  the Peace Now data was another cause for mistrust of the U.S. administration just as the White House is trying to wrap up a Mideast peace initiative.The Palestinians have severed most contacts with the White House since Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December. The Palestinians view the move as being unfairly biased toward Israel on the most sensitive issue in the conflict  and have already rejected the U.S. peace plan before it has been made public.Nabil Shaath  a top adviser to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas  said the figures proved that Netanyahu is "not interested in peace" and is destroying hopes for a two-state solution."Netanyahu is continuing his settlement project  enjoying the fact that the U.S. is silent " he said. "These numbers are very dangerous. We condemn it  and will continue working politically to stop it."Both Netanyahu's office and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  5:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's favorite TV network is increasingly serving as a West Wing casting call  as the president reshapes his administration with camera-ready personalities.Trump's new national security adviser  John Bolton  is a former U.N. ambassador  a White House veteran — and perhaps most importantly a Fox News channel talking head. Bolton's appointment  rushed out late Thursday  follows Trump's recent attempt to recruit Fox guest Joseph diGenova for his legal team.Bolton went on Fox to discuss his selection and said it had happened so quickly that "I think I'm still a Fox News contributor."Another recent TV-land addition to the Trump White House is veteran CNBC contributor Larry Kudlow as top economic adviser. Other Fox faces on Trump's team: rising State Department star Heather Nauert  a former Fox News anchor; communications adviser Mercedes Schlapp and Treasury Department spokesman Tony Sayegh. The latter two are both former Fox commentators.Advertisement"He's looking for people who are ready to be part of that television White House " said Kendall Phillips  a communication and rhetorical studies professor at Syracuse University. "This is the Fox television presidency all the way up and down."AdvertisementDiGenova  who has accused FBI officials of trying to "frame" Trump for nonexistent crimes  will not be joining the legal team because of "conflicts " said Trump counsel Jay Sekulow on Sunday. Sekulow  however  said diGenova and his wife  attorney Victoria Toensing  also a frequent commentator on Fox  would not be prevented from helping Trump "in other legal matters."Trump's affinity for Fox News is by now well-documented. He has bestowed more interviews on the network than any other news outlet and is an avid viewer. People close to the president say he thinks Fox provides the best coverage of his untraditional presidency. It also provides him a window into conservative thinking  with commentary from Republican lawmakers and right-wing thinkers — many of who are speaking directly to the audience in the Oval Office.On-air personalities Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham are favorites of the president  who also speaks to them privately. This past week Trump promoted Hannity on Twitter  saying: "@seanhannity on @foxandfriends now! Great! 8:18 A.M."The president's early-morning tweets often appear to be reaction to Fox programming. On Friday  for example  Trump tweeted he was "considering" a veto of a massive spending bill needed to keep the government open not long after it was assailed on "Fox and Friends" as a "swamp budget."The critic in question was contributor Pete Hegseth  a favorite of the president who has been rumored to be a possible replacement for embattled Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin.Fox News came in for criticism this past week from CNN chief Jeff Zucker  who on Thursday attacked the rival network by saying it has become a propaganda machine that is "doing an incredible disservice to the country."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Zucker spoke at the Financial Times Future of News conference two days after a former Fox military analyst quit  claiming he was ashamed at the way the network's opinion hosts were backing Trump. Zucker said that analyst  Ralph Peters  voiced what a lot of people have been thinking about Fox in the post-Roger Ailes era.Still  in Trump's Washington  lawmakers and influence-seekers know that the best way to get in Trump's ear is often to get on Fox. Legislators routinely seek to get airtime when they are trying to push legislation or policy ideas  said congressional aides who sought anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss private thinking.Advertisement"A year ago  everyone was trying to figure out how to get into the building; now everyone is trying to figure out how to get on TV " said Republican consultant Alex Conant.This past week  for example  conservative lawmakers unhappy with the spending bill moving through Congress took to Fox. "This may be the worst bill I have seen in my time in Congress " said Jim Jordan  R-Ohio  on Wednesday.And when the school shooting in Parkland  Florida  prompted a national conversation on gun laws  Fox contributor Geraldo Rivera used his platform to urge the president to support raising the age requirement to buy assault-type weapons."You've gotta let me give my pitch " he said on "Fox and Friends" several weeks ago  noting that he would see Trump that night. "Here in Florida and most states a kid cannot buy a beer ... and yet he could buy an AR-15 legally."The hosts quickly pushed back. "Tell him to let the teachers carry concealed " said one.While the coverage varies by show  "Fox and Friends" tends to be Trump-friendly  with the chipper morning show spotlighting his achievements and bashing the "mainstream media." On Friday  they featured a teen from the Florida high school where the shooting occurred who opposes gun control efforts  as well as a young conservative activist who interviewed Trump at a White House event the day before.Also appearing Friday was White House counselor Kellyanne Conway — herself a constant presence on cable news — who pushed back at the idea Trump was focused on hiring TV personalities."The irony is not lost on me that you have a lot of quote 'TV stars' calling Larry Kudlow and John Bolton 'TV stars '" Conway said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  7:35 A.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his decision to sign a $1.3 trillion federal spending bill despite his misgivings  pointing to billions in new funding for the military and national security.Trump said on Twitter from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida that because of the military funding  "many jobs are created and our Military is again rich." He said building his signature border wall "is all about National Defense."Since grudgingly signing the bill on Friday after threatening a veto  Trump has faced fierce criticism from conservatives who have accused him of caving to congressional Democrats. The president said Friday at the White House he was "very disappointed" in the package  in part because it didn't fully pay for his border wall. But Trump said he had "no choice" because the nation needed to fund the military.Trump sought $25 billion for his border wall  but the plan included much less — $1.6 billion for building new sections of wall and replacing older sections. Trump tweeted Sunday that much can be done with the money and it's "just a down payment."AdvertisementHe said the "rest of the money will come" and again reiterated that Democrats "abandoned" young immigrants seeking protections. Trump on Friday noted that the bill failed to extend protection from deportation to some 700 000 "Dreamer" immigrants due to lose coverage under a program the president himself has tried to eliminate.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump's veto threat had put him at odds with top members of his administration and Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan  who urged him to sign the bill. But prominent conservatives have criticized the massive spending plan  warning that it could add to the nation's debt.The president on Friday warned Congress that he would "never sign another bill like this again." He called for the Senate to overhaul its rules to allow for simple-majority votes on all bills and urged Congress to provide him with a line-item veto power to kill specific spending items he disagrees with. The Supreme Court ruled in 1998 that a congressionally passed line-item veto was unconstitutional.Advertisement__We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  11:23 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Adult film star Stormy Daniels says she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump in 2006  telling her story in a highly anticipated interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" broadcast Sunday.Daniels said she was threatened by an unidentified man in Las Vegas to keep quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump  an incident that she said happened while she was with her young daughter. She said in the interview that she had one encounter of consensual sex with the future president."He knows I'm telling the truth " said Daniels  whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford. She does not allege that she was coerced in her encounter with Trump  saying  "This is not a 'Me too.' I was not a victim."The adult film actress provided little new evidence of her alleged 2006 affair with Trump but said she faced intimidation tactics aimed at ensuring her silence in 2011.AdvertisementDaniels said that in the incident  in a parking lot  the man told her: "Leave Trump alone. Forget the story." She said he then looked at her daughter and said  "That's a beautiful little girl. It'd be a shame if something happened to her mom."AdvertisementDaniels received a $130 000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement.The White House did not immediately comment Sunday on the interview. Trump  through his representatives  has denied the allegations. His attorney  Michael Cohen  has said Trump never had an affair with Daniels. Cohen has said he paid the $130 000 out of his pocket.Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment. However  Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti told "60 Minutes" he has documents showing Cohen using his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent by FedEx to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.In the interview  Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover. She said she asked  "Does this ... does this normally work for you?" He was taken aback  she says. "And I was like  'Someone should take that magazine and spank you with it.'" She says she then ordered him to drop his pants and  in a playful manner  "I just gave him a couple swats."She said they talked some more  although he quit talking about himself  and that she became more comfortable."He was like  'Wow  you — you are special. You remind me of my daughter.' You know — he was like  'You're smart and beautiful  and a woman to be reckoned with  and I like you. I like you.'"She said after dinner in Trump's room  they had sex. He didn't use a condom  she said  and she didn't ask him to. Afterward  he asked to see her again  she said.AdvertisementDaniels said that before they had sex Trump had broached the idea of her being a contestant on "The Apprentice " and she likened it to a "business opportunity." She said he called her several times and would ask if they could get together again and that he had an update for her. She said she felt that he was dangling the opportunity to keep her coming back."Of course. I mean  I'm not blind. But at the same time  maybe it'll work out  you know?" Daniels said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In July 2007  a year after they had met  Daniels said Trump asked to meet with her privately at the Beverly Hills Hotel in Los Angeles. She said they did not have sex  but he wanted to.Daniels reported that Trump called her the following month to say he had not been able to get her a spot on his TV show. She said they never met again.Daniels was asked why she's talking now: "Because it was very important to me to be able to defend myself " she said.Daniels said she was fine saying nothing at all. "But I'm not OK with being made out to be a liar  or people thinking that I did this for money and people are like  'Oh  you're an opportunist.  You're taking advantage of this.' Yes  I'm getting more job offers now  but tell me one person who would turn down a job offer making more than they've been making  doing the same thing that they've always done?""60 Minutes" correspondent Anderson Cooper noted during the interview that Melania Trump had recently given birth just a few months before. "Did he mention his wife or child at all in this?" Cooper said. ""I asked. And he brushed it aside  said  'Oh yeah  yeah  you know  don't worry about that. We don't even  we have separate rooms and stuff'" Daniels said.The CBS interview came as Trump deals with allegations about his sexual exploits long before he ran for president.AdvertisementFormer Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc.  the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150 000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair  but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.Trump is also facing a New York defamation lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos  a former contestant on "The Apprentice." Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 after she had appeared on the show with him  and sued after he dismissed the claims as made up.A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward while the president is in office.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 25  2018
For months  scores of President Trump’s nominees for posts from ambassadorships to deputies at cabinet-level agencies have been stalled  awaiting confirmation hearings.But few drives for a confirmation vote have turned into a cause — supported by groups often on opposite sides of the political spectrum — like Richard Grenell’s.Mr. Grenell  a Republican who worked with the incoming national security adviser  John R. Bolton  at the United Nations  was nominated by Mr. Trump last year for the ambassadorship to Germany  becoming the president’s most prominent openly gay appointee.The Senate Foreign Relations Committee advanced his nomination at the end of October  and he appears to have enough support to clear the full Senate.AdvertisementBut like other nominees  he is trapped in arcane parliamentary tactics.Democrats in the Senate have expressed concern about Mr. Grenell’s sometimes caustic Twitter posts. But his nomination has attracted support from an unlikely coalition of conservative commentators and gay rights activists.AdvertisementStuart Milk  who co-founded the Harvey Milk Foundation in honor of his uncle  a prominent gay civil rights pioneer in California who was gunned down decades ago  said he believed that Mr. Grenell’s confirmation would “send an important message” about the gay community’s having a place in the Trump administration.“I understand those who are frustrated with the Trump administration and the actions the Trump administration has taken” who have also opposed Mr. Grenell  Mr. Milk said. “And I think that’s misguided.”“It would be a huge void” if the nomination didn’t proceed  he said.The Log Cabin Republicans  a gay conservative group  have also criticized the Senate’s delay.Hugh Hewitt  a conservative radio host  has for weeks promoted Mr. Grenell’s nomination and questioned why it has not moved forward.“Ric Grenell not getting confirmed is an embarrassment ” Mr. Hewitt told Senator Lindsey Graham  Republican of South Carolina  on a broadcast this month.“Would you go to the leader and get that scheduled?” Mr. Hewitt said. “I just can’t get over this.”Mr. Grenell  who quietly helped with Mr. Trump’s transition process  was the longest-serving American spokesman at the United Nations  working with four United States ambassadors there and especially closely with Mr. Bolton  a staunch foreign policy conservative. Mr. Grenell declined to comment for this article  but he has told allies that he would not take a job at the National Security Council under Mr. Bolton and that he is committed to the ambassadorship.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Senate officials from both parties said a senator appeared to have placed a hold on his nomination  which means moving forward with a vote would require 30 hours of debate  burning up most of a business week. Senate rules do not require the name of the legislator requesting the hold to be made public.AdvertisementLast week  when the Senate majority leader  Mitch McConnell of Kentucky  called for Mr. Grenell to move ahead by unanimous consent  which requires a voice vote  Senator Jeff Merkley  Democrat of Oregon  declined to advance the nomination.Democrats cite concerns about Mr. Grenell’s vocal criticism of the news media on Twitter as a concern.In particular  he excoriated as biased journalists who did not report on the revelations in the hacked emails from the Hillary Clinton campaign chairman  John D. Podesta  when they were made public by the website WikiLeaks.Senator John Barrasso  Republican of Wyoming  said the Senate needed to change the rules to speed up the process.“Today  Democrats deliberately delay in ways that limit us to a couple of nominations in a typical week ” Mr. Barrasso said on the Senate floor last week.Republicans have consistently faulted Democrats for the lack of movement on nominees. So has the White House  where officials have repeatedly criticized Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the Democratic leader.But privately  some White House advisers say Mr. McConnell could do more — like keep lawmakers in Washington — to force nominations through even with the existing rules.Other opponents have dismissed Mr. Grenell as an avatar for gay rights.Hilary Rosen  a Democratic strategist with the firm SKDKnickerbocker and a vocal supporter of gay rights  said in an email  “I don’t think having Richard at the table helps the movement one bit.”For instance  she added  last week “President Trump announced his plan to discriminate against trans troops fighting their country and Grenell  still waiting for his seat at a homophobic table  stayed silent.”A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Opposing Factions Join to Urge Confirmation of a Gay Presidential Appointee.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  5:32 P.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump will not be adding two new lawyers to the legal team defending him in the special counsel's Russia investigation after all  one of the president's attorneys said Sunday.Trump attorney Jay Sekulow said in a statement that Washington lawyers Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing have conflicts that won't allow them to represent the president regarding special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. Sekulow had announced diGenova's appointment last week.Sunday's announcement came just hours after Trump used Twitter to push back against reports that he's having difficulty adding to his legal team  saying he was "very happy" with his current attorneys."Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case " he wrote  adding: "Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer  though some are conflicted."AdvertisementNeither the president nor Sekulow specified the conflict regarding diGenova and Toensing  who are married to each other and law partners  but their firm has represented other clients in the special counsel's investigation  including former Trump campaign adviser Sam Clovis.AdvertisementSekulow said Trump was "disappointed" that diGenova and Toensing won't be defending him in the special counsel investigation  but "those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the President in other legal matters.""The President looks forward to working with them " he added.On Sunday  diGenova and Toensing released a joint statement  saying  "We thank the president for his confidence in us  and we look forward to working with him on other matters." DiGenova  who provided the statement to The Associated Press  declined to answer additional questions about the nature of his and Toensing's representation of the president.DiGenova had been expected to usher in a new strategy for the president after Trump's lead attorney  John Dowd  resigned last week. Dowd had touted the cooperation of the White House and Trump campaign with Mueller. DiGenova  a former U.S. attorney  has been a fierce defender of Trump on television and accused the FBI of trying to "frame" the president for nonexistent crimes.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dowd was the primary negotiator and legal strategist who had been putting together the president's legal defense in the Russia probe led by Mueller. The legal team shake-up also comes as Trump's attorneys have been negotiating with Mueller over the scope and terms of an interview with the president. Mueller is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and whether there was any collusion with the Trump campaign.The president tweeted Sunday  "there was NO COLLUSION with Russia " pointing instead to his 2016 Democratic rival  Hillary Clinton.Sen. Mark Warner  D-Va.  said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that the Russians hacked into the election and every one of the president's top security advisers has said they'll be back. But he said the White House is providing no direction on making election security a top priority.Warner was asked if the president is acting like he has been "compromised" when it comes to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump congratulated Putin on his re-election last week and failed to bring up the U.S. election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil during the conversation."It's more than bizarre that 14 months into this president's administration  he has failed to ever call out Russia. He has failed to ever condemn Putin " said Warner  the leading Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee."There is something just strange about this  and I think it's one of the reasons why Mueller's investigation has to continue and why our investigation has to continue."Advertisement__Day reported from Alexandria  Virginia. AP Writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:32 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump will not hire two lawyers to his legal team handling the special counsel's probe despite announcing their addition last week  Trump's personal lawyer said on Sunday  adding to uncertainty about the president's legal representation in the Russia investigation."The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the president's special counsel legal team " Jay Sekulow said in a statement. "However  those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.'The announcement came nearly a week after Sekulow said diGenova would join the legal team handling Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the 2016 presidential election.The quick reversal is likely to add to the perception that Trump's legal representation is in disarray as his lawyers have been negotiating the terms of a possible interview with the president.AdvertisementTrump's lead lawyer in the special counsel investigation  John Dowd  resigned Thursday."Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case...don’t believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on " Trump tweeted on Sunday.AdvertisementTrump has denounced the investigation as a "witch hunt." Russia denies meddling in the election.DiGenova has appeared on Fox News accusing the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Justice Department of trying to frame Trump with false charges of colluding with Russia during the campaign.Trump wanted to hire diGenova after seeing him on television  but the conflicts were obvious  said a person familiar with the matter  who added that it was surprising that consideration for adding diGenova to Trump's team had gotten so far."We thank the president for his confidence in us and we look forward to working with him ” on other matters  Toensing said in a statement on behalf of both her and diGenova. The married pair work together at their namesake law firm.Toensing declined to comment on what specific conflicts may have led to the work on the Russia legal team falling through.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.DiGenova & Toensing has represented Mark Corallo  a former spokesman for Trump's legal team  and Sam Clovis  a former campaign aide.Corallo was the spokesman for Trump's outside lawyers until last summer  when he resigned during another legal team shake-up.Since then  Corallo has spoken with Mueller about what he viewed as a false statement dictated by Trump from Air Force One about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York City that included several Russians  according to a person familiar with the matter. That meeting was attended by Trump's son  Donald Jr.Clovis  a former Pentagon official  was a campaign supervisor who wrote "great work" in an email after Trump's  foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos discussed efforts to broker a meeting between the campaign and Russian leaders.AdvertisementCorallo told Reuters on Friday that he had signed a waiver of potential conflicts last week.Clovis could not be reached for comment  but a person familiar with the matter said appropriate waivers had been signed.DiGenova was at the White House on Thursday  according to a person familiar with the meeting.Trump has had trouble finding outside lawyers to assist him in the Russia probe.Major firms such as Williams & Connolly and Gibson  Dunn & Crutcher turned him down in the last year  citing conflicts  people familiar with the matter have told Reuters.Trump representatives have reached out to some of those firms again more recently  sources said.(Reporting by Karen Freifeld in New York; Writing by Dustin Volz; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — After 61 weeks in the White House  President Trump has found two people he won’t attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal.The verbose commander in chief has posted more than 2 900 times on Twitter since taking office  using the term “FAKE NEWS” to describe everything from the Russia inquiry and allegations of chaos in the White House to harassment accusations  the size of his inaugural crowds and heated arguments with world leaders.But he has been uncharacteristically silent in recent days — to the relief of his advisers — as a pornographic film star and a Playboy model described intimate details of sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Stephanie Clifford  known in pornographic films as Stormy Daniels  said Sunday night on CBS’s “60 Minutes” that she once spanked the president with a copy of Forbes magazine bearing his face on the cover.The fact that the president has not given oxygen to the headlines  however  does not mean that he is content.AdvertisementInside the White House  Mr. Trump is eager to defend himself against allegations that he insists are false  those close to him say. And he is growing increasingly frustrated with breathless  wall-to-wall news media coverage of the salacious details from the two women.AdvertisementOn Monday  Ms. Clifford’s lawyer added new charges to the suit she filed: that the president’s lawyer defamed Ms. Clifford in denying her claims; that he and Mr. Trump pursued the deal to specifically help Mr. Trump’s election prospects; and that he then structured the agreement to shield from public view what was  effectively  an illegal $130 000 campaign gift.In discussions with allies and some aides  Mr. Trump has privately railed against Ms. Clifford  and insisted that she is not telling the truth. He has reminded advisers that he joined an effort to enforce financial penalties against Ms. Clifford  whose TV interview on Sunday night was hyped throughout the weekend on the cable news channels that Mr. Trump watches obsessively.But there has been no debate among Mr. Trump’s advisers about the best course for him: just keep quiet about a story that would only be fueled by a presidential tweet or a comment about the women shouted above the roar of Marine One.Keeping a lid on Mr. Trump is never easy  especially when he is eager to hit back at his adversaries.In the days after an “Access Hollywood” video exposed his own lewd comments about women during the final month of the campaign  Mr. Trump responded by showing up at his debate with Hillary Clinton with three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a candidate  and as president  Mr. Trump has eagerly attacked just about all of his enemies and accusers  often with colorful nicknames like “Little Rocket Man” for the North Korean leader  “Crazy Joe Biden” or “Sloppy Steve” Bannon.But for now  it appears that the president is listening to — and accepting — his advisers’ warnings on the dangers of speaking out about the women  much the way he followed the advice of his lawyers for a year not to attack Robert S. Mueller III  the special counsel in the Russia inquiry.AdvertisementRecently  he has ditched that advice  attacking Mr. Mueller and his team directly on Twitter. That leaves only his alleged mistresses and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as people who are immune to Mr. Trump’s Twitter trash-talk.Raj Shah  a deputy White House press secretary  declined to say “what the president may or may not have seen” on television Sunday night  though he said that Mr. Trump denies the allegations that Ms. Clifford made in the CBS interview.“I’ll just say that he’s consistently denied these allegations ” Mr. Shah said. “The president doesn’t believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.”Mr. Trump dined at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday evening with Michael D. Cohen  his lawyer and longtime aide who is at the center of the Clifford scandal  according to three people familiar with the get-together. The president scheduled the meeting himself  surprising his aides with it a short time before Mr. Cohen arrived  people familiar with the meeting said.Melania Trump  too  has been silent about the allegations. Asked to react to the interviews  Stephanie Grisham  Mrs. Trump’s spokeswoman  said: “She’s focusing on being a mother  she’s quite enjoying her spring break and she’s focused on future projects.”It is not clear whether Mr. Trump watched a similar tell-all interview on CNN on Thursday evening  when Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  alleged a 10-month romantic affair with Mr. Trump in which they repeatedly had sex.Sunday’s interview with Ms. Clifford contained few surprises but some humiliating details  such as Ms. Clifford saying she was not attracted to Mr. Trump  and her recollection of spanking him. Virility and strength are key traits that the president likes to project  and he once gloated about a New York Post headline quoting a friend of his second wife  Marla Maples  who recalled Ms. Maples saying that Mr. Trump was the “Best Sex I’ve Ever Had.”In the interview  Ms. Clifford said that she had flirted with Mr. Trump in 2006 at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. She said Mr. Trump had compared her favorably to his daughter during the flirtation  and that she had intercourse with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementShe also alleged that an unknown person whom she believed to be connected to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen threatened her in a parking lot in 2011  telling her  “leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then looking at her infant daughter  he added  “That’s a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”Asked by Anderson Cooper whether she had anything to say to Mr. Trump  if he was watching Sunday night  Ms. Clifford said  “He knows I’m telling the truth.”Even that has not prompted Mr. Trump to directly address the central allegations from Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal — that the president cheated on his wife shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son.Mr. Trump did type out a vague “Fake News” tweet on Monday morning  although it is unclear to what he was referring.
            So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all  our country is doing great!        Beyond the details of the alleged encounters  Mr. Trump’s advisers have been urging the president to keep quiet about the legal wrangling concerning Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal.Ms. McDougal  who accepted $150 000 from the parent company of the National Enquirer to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Mr. Trump  is suing the company to be released from the contract. Mr. Cohen has acknowledged paying Ms. Clifford $130 000 in the days before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her allegations.Mr. Shah said at the White House on Monday that “I can say categorically that  obviously  the White House didn’t engage in any wrongdoing.”Asked about why Mr. Trump’s lawyer would pay Ms. Clifford $130 000 if her allegations were false  Mr. Shah said that “false charges are settled out of court all the time.” He referred further questions about the case to Mr. Cohen.AdvertisementThe lawyer for Ms. Clifford has aggressively argued that his client is not bound by the nondisclosure agreement that she signed  in part because Mr. Trump himself never signed the document. Michael Avenatti  the lawyer  has repeatedly used Trumplike insinuations to suggest that Ms. Clifford has digital evidence of the intercourse.“We have a litany of more evidence in this case  and it’s going to be disclosed  and it’s going to be laid bare for the American public ” Mr. Avenatti said in an interview Monday morning on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”Last week  Mr. Avenatti tweeted a picture of a CD or DVD with the suggestive caption: “If a picture is worth a thousand words  how many words is this worth???? #60minutes #pleasedenyit #basta.”Even that has not prompted a presidential retort — yet.An earlier version of this article misstated the title of Raj Shah. He is a deputy White House press secretary  not the White House press secretary.Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Privately Rails Against a Porn Actress. On Twitter? Silence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Charles M. BlowAs Richard Haass  president of the Council on Foreign Relations  tweeted Friday:“@realDonaldTrump is now set for war on 3 fronts: political vs Bob Mueller  economic vs China/others on trade  and actual vs. Iran and/or North Korea. This is the most perilous moment in modern American history — and it has been largely brought about by ourselves  not by events.”I agree fully with this assessment.Some have viewed President Trump’s recent moves as a sign of rising self-assuredness in the man.I see quite the opposite. I see a man growing increasingly irascible as his sense of desperation surges. The world is closing in on Trump and he is in an existential fight for his own survival.This is precisely what makes him so dangerous: As the personal threat to him grows  his threat to the country grows. The power of the American presidency is an awesome power  and Trump will harness and deploy it all as guard and guarantee against his own demise.Add to his sense of panic his compounding emotional and psychological liabilities: He has an inflated view of his own skills  talents and expertise. He knows only a fraction of what he has convinced himself that he knows.He prefers casual conversation to literary examination  opting to listen rather than to read  which is both a sign of a severely compromised and restrained intellect and an astounding arrogance about one’s information absorption.While pundits mull whether the cloud of chaos Trump keeps swirling around him is simple incompetence or strategic plotting  The New York Times reported Friday:“Aides said there was no grand strategy to the president’s actions  and that he got up each morning this week not knowing what he would do. Much as he did as a New York businessman at Trump Tower  Mr. Trump watched television  reacted to what he saw on television and then reacted to the reaction.”This is all gut and instinct. This is all reactionary emoting by a man of poor character  one addicted to affirmation. He desperately needs to be the king-of-every-hill he sees in the mirror: He was the ladies’ man  businessman  smartest man  toughest man. There was nothing beyond him  and he didn’t have to follow the rules  he only had to follow his instincts.But Washington politics is a long way from New York City real estate. Wrangling Senate votes is a long way from prowling for playmates. This is the big leagues and this little man is feeling the stress and strain of it.Even if he can’t be good  he at least wants to look good  to fake it to try to make it. This may be one of the reasons he is inviting so many television personalities into his cabinet.This is all just window dressing. Trump is truly in the cross hairs  and he knows it.Just as he is going to war on three fronts  he is being attacked on three fronts.The Robert Mueller investigation is bearing down on him as an inevitable in-person interview with Trump — and all of its potential pitfalls — draws nearer. I have resisted predictions about what could come of the investigation because it would be little more than conjecture. Only Mueller knows what Mueller knows. But  it appears to me that the president is surely acting like a guilty man  or at least someone trying to shield another who is guilty.Then there is the porn star  the playmate and the reality star: Three women currently in litigation over sexual contact with Trump — two admittedly consensual and one allegedly not. The most tantalizing and threatening of the three is the case with porn star Stephanie Clifford  whose stage name is Stormy Daniels. Daniels and her attorney  as well as language in the nondisclosure agreement that she signed  suggests that she has some compromising written and photographic evidence about her encounters with Trump.Furthermore  in Daniels  Trump seems to have met his match as an internet troll. When someone on Twitter asked Clifford  “What snack foods do you recommend for watching you on “60 Minutes” tomorrow night? Nachos and wings feel so January  you know?” Clifford responded: “Tacos and mini corndogs just seems so right … and yet  so wrong. I believe the more traditional choice is popcorn  however.”Yes  the subtext of that tweet is exactly what you think it is. Note to self: Never pick a fight with a porn star.And now with the massive March For Our Lives  we see that going into the midterms not only are black voters and suburban white women energized against this president and his congressional protectors  so are young people who feel betrayed  particularly on the issue of gun control  by politicians beholden to the N.R.A.Trump talked big about standing up to the N.R.A.  and then summarily caved to the N.R.A.If this surge of enthusiasm leads to Democrats flipping the House — and the long shot  the Senate — and something comes of the Mueller investigation or the women’s lawsuits  you can rest assured that impeachment proceedings will be in the offing. This is why Trump is going to war.I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow)  or email me at chblow@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JAMES PONIEWOZIKMARCH 26  2018
“I don’t think anyone’s ever spoken to him like that.”Stephanie Clifford was talking  on “60 Minutes ” about her alleged sexual encounter with Donald J. Trump in 2006. Specifically  the pornographic film actress and director  who goes by the name Stormy Daniels  was describing the moment when she suggested spanking Mr. Trump with a magazine that had his picture on the cover. (According to her  he acquiesced.)But she could just as well have been describing the way she has told her story (which representatives for President Trump have denied). None of Mr. Trump’s many media antagonists have taken him on in quite this way  on his own terms  using some of the same tactics he did as a celebrity  candidate and president.Others have come at Mr. Trump with indignation  righteousness and appeals to decency. Ms. Clifford swatted Mr. Trump with a rolled-up network newsmagazine.Speaking to Anderson Cooper  Ms. Daniels was direct and conversational. She had playful one-liners. (“You didn’t even buy me breakfast ” she told Mr. Cooper.) She told a story. (Describing how she said Mr. Trump awaited her on the edge of a hotel bed — “perched” — she mimed his sitting position and bearing.)AdvertisementBut most important — most  dare I say it  Trumpian — she was unapologetic.There’s a familiar script for discrediting women who accuse powerful men. They’re attacked as opportunistic and promiscuous  out to make a buck. If they deny any of that  it still ends up making the moral conversation about them.AdvertisementMs. Clifford owned her story and her life. Yes  she’s stripped and had sex on camera for a living  a “legitimate — and legal  I’d like to point out — career.” Yes  she’s gotten job offers from her publicity: “Tell me one person who would turn down a job offer making more than they’ve been making.”That should sound familiar. Running for president  Mr. Trump jiu-jitsued facts that would have ended other candidacies into selling points. Did he give money to candidates he later attacked? That meant he knew how to work the system  and thus could fix it. Did he avoid paying income taxes? “That makes me smart.”His brazenness was the brazenness of reality TV  the argument of a finalist in a “Survivor” tribal council who tells the jury to hate the game  not the player.Just so  Ms. Clifford has used unshamability and quick-draw ripostes as a force field. When a critic on Twitter told her that “dumb whores go to hell ” she shot back  “Glad I’m a smart one.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Clifford’s story had plenty of tidbits  salacious (her statement that Mr. Trump did not use a condom)  bizarre (her recounting of watching an entire “Shark Week” documentary with him) and disturbing (her charge that a man threatened her  in front of her infant daughter  if she spoke about Mr. Trump). But running through it was a theme: I know who I am  and that’s exactly why you should believe me.Mr. Cooper made the case that the story was worth covering  at double length  on CBS’s flagship newsmagazine. He recognized the story was about sex  asking for details up front and pressing Ms. Clifford on her motives — whether she might get a book deal  for instance. But he moved on to look  at some length  at the possibility that a $130 000 payment for Ms. Clifford’s silence might be an illegal campaign contribution.Even more  as the subject turned to threats  payoffs and nondisclosure agreements  the interview became about power  the ability of wealthy men to pay  pressure or coerce women into silence. (The alleged parking lot encounter aside  Mr. Trump’s lawyers have openly threatened Ms. Clifford with financial ruin.) It’s about who gets to decide when their stories get told and under what terms.Ms. Clifford made a point of emphasizing that she was “not a victim” in having sex with Mr. Trump  even though she described an encounter she was  at best  unenthusiastic about. “You put yourself in a bad situation and bad things happen  so you deserve this ” she said.AdvertisementA few days earlier  Mr. Cooper sat down on CNN with Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model who says she had an extended affair with Mr. Trump at around the same time as Ms. Clifford. Ms. McDougal described having been in love with Mr. Trump  then guilty and apologetic for having a relationship with a married man with a newborn child.Ms. Clifford  on the other hand  represented herself as having no illusions about herself or Mr. Trump. Asked if she thought he had offered her a role on “The Apprentice” to keep her romantically interested  she said  “Of course. I’m not blind.”To paraphrase one of Mr. Trump’s campaign lines  she was saying that she knew he was a snake when he took her in. With this admission  she implicitly told the audience: Look  we’re all adults here. We know how these things work.As an argument  that was 100 percent Trump. Mr. Trump did not put Ms. Clifford on his TV show. But she did make it on TV  where she proved an adept apprentice in his media techniques. Maybe even a master.A version of this review appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Stormy Daniels  Out-Trumps Trump.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Christopher Oldstone-MooreJohn Bolton’s appointment as national security adviser is surprising in at least one respect. Mr. Bolton does not conform to President Trump’s well-attested preference for hiring people from “central casting” — that is  svelte women and square-jawed  clean-shaven men. Insiders report that when Mr. Trump first assembled his cabinet  he rejected Mr. Bolton for secretary of state because of his eccentric brush mustache.But central casting  in the guise of Fox News  has encouraged the president to reconsider this prejudice  and having done so  he’s unlikely to regret it. Trump may think he’s mustache-averse  but what he’s likely to realize over the course of the next few months is that this particular form of facial hair — in addition to Mr. Bolton’s established track record for bellicosity — can signal a tendency toward the sort of masculine impulsiveness and aggression that is dear to Mr. Trump’s own heart.This is not to disparage men with mustaches. They come in all varieties — and context is everything. In the realms of modern business and politics  however  facial hair has particular resonance. Beards and mustaches were effectively banished from these worlds more than a century ago. And so a man who persists in wearing a large mustache is deliberately standing out as a nonconformist. What does he reject? He rejects the longstanding shaving standard  and to some extent  its associated virtues: propriety  discipline and sociability.The reasons that mustaches were abandoned at the beginning of the 20th century are complicated  but have to do with hygiene and corporate business culture. Germs were discovered at the end of the nineteenth century  and facial hair was subsequently condemned as unsanitary and uncivilized. Just as importantly  employers rejected facial hair as a mark of indiscipline and unprofessionalism.This new shaving standard was a sharp departure from the previous century  when mustaches were ensigns of resolute and pugnacious manliness — so much so  that most European armies required their officers and recruits to muster with standard black mustaches. And so 20th-century men who cultivated their upper lips inevitably  if sometimes inadvertently  invoked this military past  with an additional element of nonconformity. This dynamic explains the edginess of the likes of Jimi Hendrix and Frank Zappa  the bravado of Reggie Jackson and Hulk Hogan  and the tough-guy charm of Tom Selleck and Burt Reynolds.The 1930s and 40s were the heyday of Hollywood mustaches. Errol Flynn  Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and Jr.  Adolphe Menjou and Clark Gable all graced the silver screen with rapier mustaches. Even the mild-mannered Bing Crosby was briefly persuaded to try one.The responses from audiences were mixed: One the one hand  they made leading men appear more manly  free of conventional restraints. Their roguish  free-spirited independence offered a fantasy of liberated masculinity that appealed to men and women alike.But the allure of the “modern caveman ” as one critic described the newly mustachioed Clark Gable  was counteracted by an underlying sense of aggressiveness that audiences  particularly women  found unattractive. One studio studied the question  presenting test audiences with scenes featuring Tyrone Power with and without a mustache. The result was that Mr. Power appeared shaved in subsequent films.This contrast of manly types could be seen as akin to the Freudian battle between self-assertion and social control. A shaven man was perceived as a team player  disciplined and sociable. A man with facial hair  by contrast  was more impulsive and independent  playing by his own rules.It was for this reason that voters  from the 1920s onward  regarded mustachioed politicians with suspicion. If two-time presidential runner-up Thomas Dewey  whom one admirer dubbed the “Clark Gable of candidates ” had shaved his upper lip  history might have been kinder to him. In 1944  journalist Edith Efron wrote about Dewey’s mustache in The New York Times Magazine: “It fascinates. It amuses. And it repels.” His lip adornment helped Dewey achieve a reputation for toughness  but also for arrogance. After his 1948 defeat  Dewey only half-jokingly told some visiting boy scouts  “remember  fellows  any boy can become president unless he’s got a mustache.”In subsequent years  facial hair was a feature of the rebellious left. In our times  it is still nonconformist in business and politics  though today one is just as likely to find it on the political right  which has increasingly developed its own rebellious counterculture. For every Che Guevara  there is a Geraldo Rivera; for every hairy hipster  a hirsute hunter. This brings us back to Mr. Bolton  and to Mr. Trump himself.Mr. Bolton’s disregard for shaving norms is a faithful reflection of his fierce independence  and his general disdain for established political ground rules and diplomatic norms. His vitriolic language and passion for conflict prevented him from winning Senate confirmation in 2005 as ambassador to the United Nations. He is the ego in conflict with the super-ego of the political establishment: Negotiations and treaties are for wimps  and so are razors.Reporters have noted that early in his presidency  Mr. Trump felt tentative  and inclined to listen to the advice of people around him. Today he is increasingly going with his gut  and worries far less about convention or conventional looks. As he throws off the shackles on his own ego  he has turned to a similarly liberated national security adviser. Even if he still does not like Mr. Bolton’s mustache  Mr. Trump may be drawn to the pugnacious manliness it represents.In historical context  Mr. Bolton’s mustache fits perfectly for a man who follows no rules. No wonder he has vowed never to shave it off. And no wonder that  in spite of initial misgivings  the “Disruptor-in-Chief” has turned to him. Perhaps Mr. Trump will consider growing one himself some day.Christopher Oldstone-Moore is senior lecturer of history at Wright State University and the author of “Of Beards and Men: the Revealing History of Facial Hair.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy RICK GLADSTONEMARCH 26  2018
The Iran nuclear accord  assailed by President Trump and his revamped retinue of advisers  received a strong endorsement Monday from a bipartisan group of more than 100 national security veterans  who said the United States gains nothing by scrapping it.The group  including 50 retired military officers and at least four former American ambassadors to Israel  added its voice to a fractious debate over the accord  which Mr. Trump has called “the worst deal” ever.In a statement  the group  which calls itself the National Coalition to Prevent an Iranian Nuclear Weapon  enumerated 10 reasons that  in its view  preserving the accord is in the best interests of the United States.They included the determination by United Nations inspectors that the accord is working; the importance of preserving close relations with major European allies  which all support the accord; and the possibility of reaching a nuclear agreement with North Korea  which might not negotiate if it believes that the United States abrogates international pledges.Advertisement“President Trump should maintain the U.S. commitment to the Iran nuclear deal ” the signers said in the statement. “Doing so will bring substantial benefits and strengthen America’s hand in dealing with North Korea  as well as Iran  and help maintain the reliability of America’s word and influence as a world leader. Ditching it would serve no national security purpose.”AdvertisementThe signers cover a range of prominent diplomatic and military figures  Democrat and Republican  spanning decades of foreign policy experience. They include Brent Scowcroft  a former national security adviser; Gen. Michael V. Hayden  former director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency; former Senators Richard G. Lugar and Sam Nunn; Adm. Eric T. Olson  former commander of Special Operations Forces; and Adm. William J. Fallon  former commander of the United States Central Command.Former ambassadors who signed include Ryan C. Crocker  who served in Afghanistan  Iran  Pakistan  Syria  Kuwait and Lebanon; Daniel C. Kurtzer  who served in Israel and Egypt; James B. Cunningham  who served in the United Nations  Israel and Afghanistan; Thomas R. Pickering  a former under secretary of state who served in Israel  Russia  India  El Salvador  Nigeria  Jordan and the United Nations; and William C. Harrop  who served in Israel and as the State Department’s inspector general.The release of their statement came less than two months before an American law requires Mr. Trump to decide whether to restore nuclear-related sanctions on Iran. He has suggested that he will restore them  which would effectively terminate the American pledge to heed the nuclear agreement’s provisions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 2015 agreement  negotiated under President Barack Obama  curtails Iran’s nuclear activities in exchange for eased economic sanctions. It provides for unprecedented international inspections of Iranian facilities to ensure compliance with Iran’s repeated vow that it will never develop a nuclear weapon.Mr. Trump has criticized provisions of the agreement that expire after a number of years  arguing they should be permanent. He also has complained that the accord does not prohibit Iran’s ballistic missile activities.His views have been welcomed by the governments of Israel and Saudi Arabia  which both see Iran as a regional menace  and in Israel’s view  an existential threat.Britain  France and Germany  which signed the nuclear accord  agree with Mr. Trump’s concern about Iranian missiles  but say that issue should be discussed separately.Iran has said it will not renegotiate the nuclear agreement.The prospects that Mr. Trump will terminate American participation rose significantly in the past few weeks  when he dismissed his secretary of state and national security adviser  replacing them with loyalists who are outspoken in their antipathy toward Iran.Mr. Trump’s new choices for secretary of state  the C.I.A. director Mike Pompeo  and for national security adviser  the former ambassador John R. Bolton  have both denounced the nuclear agreement.AdvertisementWendy R. Sherman  a former under secretary of state who was the lead American negotiator for the nuclear agreement  said in an Op-Ed essay published in The New York Times on Monday that Mr. Bolton’s elevation  in particular  “has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump has stayed in touch with Rob Porter  the former White House staff secretary who stepped down after allegations that he had abused his two former wives came to light  according to three people familiar with the conversations  and has told some advisers he hopes Mr. Porter returns to work in the West Wing.The president’s calls with Mr. Porter have increased in the last few weeks  as the number of people he is close to in the White House has dwindled because of the large number of staff departures  the people familiar with the calls said.In Mr. Trump’s orbit  few people are ever permanently exiled. He often sees aides who are subject to public criticism as extensions of himself  coming under fire because critics want to attack him  and he has described the Porter situation in those terms to some people  those briefed on the discussions said.The president has told the advisers he has talked with that he knows he probably cannot bring Mr. Porter back. But he has made clear that he misses the staff structure that Mr. Porter had helped build and implement  a White House official said  speaking on background because advisers were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Mr. Porter also served as a de facto deputy chief of staff for policy  playing a key role on issues like tariffs  and Mr. Trump spent as much as two hours a day with him.AdvertisementIt was not immediately clear how many conversations Mr. Porter has had with the president since leaving  but one person familiar with the discussions said they have talked about trade and how to navigate granting exemptions to the tariffs Mr. Trump announced last week.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A White House spokesman declined to comment. Mr. Porter also declined to comment.Mr. Porter left the White House on Feb. 7  after The Daily Mail published accounts from his two ex-wives claiming emotional and physical abuse during the course of his marriages to them. One story included a photo of one of the ex-wives  Colbie Holderness  with a black eye she said Mr. Porter had given her.AdvertisementMs. Holderness  who split with Mr. Porter in 2008  and his second wife  Jennifer Willoughby  have both been vocal about their allegations about their ex-husband. Mr. Porter has denied the allegations  and said the photograph did not tell the full story of either marriage. Mr. Trump has told some advisers that the news media scrutiny of Mr. Porter was so excessive that it left him unable to defend himself.Mr. Trump has told people that he believes that Mr. Porter’s departure was botched  primarily but not exclusively by his chief of staff  John F. Kelly. White House officials initially said at the time that Mr. Porter had decided on his own to resign  and some said Mr. Kelly had asked Mr. Porter to stay on. But they later offered a different account — that Mr. Kelly had told Mr. Porter to resign soon after learning of the allegations  though there were multiple accounts of how Mr. Kelly had been aware of some of the allegations for months.Despite his responsibilities  Mr. Porter did not have a five-year security clearance  only an interim one  during his time at the White House. His interim clearance was never revoked after a full F.B.I. investigation  a fact some White House officials noted when he resigned as an indication that his case was more nuanced and complex than news media accounts had suggested.But his case led to a sweeping change in how the White House handles interim security clearances  with a new process that some White House officials have privately said is being used as a weapon against specific staff members  with partial information being dribbled out to the press in an inflammatory way.One of those people  some in the White House believe  was Mr. Trump’s personal assistant  John McEntee  who was hustled out of the White House so quickly two weeks ago that he did not have time to collect his jacket. Mr. McEntee had a gambling habit that could have led to financial issues  White House officials have said  but early news accounts painted him as under criminal investigation  reports that were later contradicted.Mr. Trump has told advisers that Mr. McEntee is a “good kid” who was dealt with unfairly and that he would like to bring him back.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Pines for an Aide Who Resigned.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and EILEEN SULLIVANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States on Monday  adding to a growing cascade of similar actions taken by western allies in response to Russia’s alleged poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Poland  Italy  Denmark  France and Germany were among 14 European Union member nations announcing plans to expel Russians from their countries in solidarity with Britain  which previously expelled 23 Russian diplomats after the poisoning. Canada also said it would expel four.The American expulsion order  announced by administration officials  includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers who have been stationed at the United Nations in New York  and also closes the Russian consulate in Seattle. The Russians and their families have seven days to leave the United States  according to officials.The expulsions are the toughest action taken against the Kremlin by President Trump  who has been criticized for not being firm enough with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. The officials said the action was a coordinated effort with other allies. Poland announced it would expel several Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning. And Germany announced plans to expel four Russian diplomats within the next week.AdvertisementIn a call with reporters  senior White House officials said that the move was to root out Russians actively engaging in intelligence operations against the country  and to show that the United States would stand with NATO allies. The officials said that the closure of the consulate in Seattle was ordered because of its proximity to a U.S. naval base.Advertisement“Today’s actions make the United States safer by reducing Russia’s ability to spy on Americans and to conduct covert operations that threaten America’s national security ” the White House said in a statement.The Kremlin has maintained that it had nothing to do with the poisoning.Britain’s decision to expel 23 Russian diplomats over the poisoning initially raised tensions between the two countries to a level not seen since the heights of the Cold War. The government vowed to crack down on Russian spies  corrupt elites and ill-gotten wealth in Britain.On March 15  the Trump administration imposed sanctions on a series of Russian organizations and individuals for interference in the 2016 presidential election and other “malicious cyberattacks ” its most significant action against Moscow until Monday.Those sanctions came as the United States joined Britain  France and Germany in denouncing Russia for its apparent role in a nerve-gas attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil  calling it a “clear violation” of international law.White House officials called the nerve agent used against the Skripals “military grade ” but declined to elaborate on the substance used.American officials estimate there are currently more than 100 Russian intelligence officers in the United States.Mr. Trump has said that  despite its denials  Russia was likely behind it. “It looks like it ” he told reporters in the Oval Office on March 15  adding that he had spoken with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.Advertisement“We are in deep discussions ” Mr. Trump continued. “A very sad situation. It certainly looks like the Russians were behind it. Something that should never  ever happen. And we’re taking it very seriously  as I think are many others.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump has been slower to act than leaders in Britain  France and Germany over the attack  in which Sergei V. Skripal  66  a former spy  and his daughter  Yulia Skripal  33  were attacked with a nerve agent.The senior administration officials who described the expulsion order said the three weeks that lapsed between the attack and White House action was due to close coordination among about a dozen American allies.Poland has positioned itself to take a lead role in coordinating a response from the Eastern European nations traditionally most wary of their giant neighbor to the east.The Russian ambassador to Poland  Sergei Andreyev  was summoned to the foreign ministry on Monday morning and informed of imminent diplomatic action against his country. The Polish foreign minister was expected to make an announcement later this afternoon.The Polish foreign minister  Jacek Czaputowicz called the tragic incident in Britain an “unprecedented attack on civilians with the use of chemical weapon ” that had not been seen since World War II.Mr. Czaputowicz said the Russian ambassador and three other diplomats were now considered “persona non grata ” giving them until April 3 to leave the country.Russia’s overall goal  Mr. Czaputowicz said  is to “disrupt international order and create a sense of danger.”Any expulsion of Russian diplomats would be an unprecedented move on Warsaw’s part  the first time they took diplomatic action against their neighbor due to Russian behavior outside of Poland.AdvertisementSince Poland broke from the Soviet bloc in the 1990s  it has expelled Russian diplomats only twice — and both times had to do with Russia’s spying activities in Poland.Germany’s move not only signaled solidarity with London  but it also suggested the incoming German foreign minister  Heiko Maas  may be more hawkish toward Moscow than his predecessor.“The attack in Salisbury shook us all in the European Union ” Mr. Maas  said. “For the first time since the end of World War II a chemical war agent was used in the middle of Europe.”Mr. Maas said Germany did not take the decision “flippantly.”“But the fact and indications point to Russia. The Russian government has so far not answered any of the open questions and has shown no readiness to play a constructive role in solving this attack ” he said.Because of an editing error  an earlier version of this article misstated a recent action by Poland. It announced the expulsion of several Russian diplomats  but not the Russian ambassador.Marc Santora contributed reporting from Warsaw.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KENNETH P. VOGEL and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICKMARCH 25  2018
WASHINGTON — For Elliott Broidy  Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign represented an unparalleled political and business opportunity.An investor and defense contractor  Mr. Broidy became a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s campaign when most elite Republican donors were keeping their distance  and Mr. Trump in turn overlooked the lingering whiff of scandal from Mr. Broidy’s 2009 guilty plea in a pension fund bribery case.After Mr. Trump’s election  Mr. Broidy quickly capitalized  marketing his Trump connections to politicians and governments around the world  including some with unsavory records  according to interviews and documents obtained by The New York Times. Mr. Broidy suggested to clients and prospective customers of his Virginia-based defense contracting company  Circinus  that he could broker meetings with Mr. Trump  his administration and congressional allies.Mr. Broidy’s ability to leverage his political connections to boost his business illuminates how Mr. Trump’s unorthodox approach to governing has spawned a new breed of access peddling in the swamp he vowed to drain.AdvertisementMr. Broidy offered tickets to V.I.P. inauguration events  including a candlelight dinner attended by Mr. Trump  to a Congolese strongman accused of funding a lavish lifestyle with public resources. He helped arrange a meeting with Republican senators and offered a trip to Mar-a-Lago  the president’s private Florida resort  for an Angolan politician. And he arranged an invitation to a party at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel for a Romanian parliamentarian facing corruption charges  who posted a photograph with the president on Facebook.AdvertisementThis type of access has value on the international stage  where the perception of support from an American president — or even a photo with one — can benefit foreign leaders back home.Mr. Broidy was open about his business interests  but the administration made no effort to curtail his offers of access to clients or prospective clients.Yet Mr. Broidy was so aggressive  some associates said  that they warned him to tone down his approach for fear that he might run afoul of the president  clients or American lobbying and anti-corruption laws.As with so many other political conventions  Mr. Trump has upended the traditional system of access to the president  among the most prized chits in Washington. That is partly because of lax vetting that has allowed largely unfettered access to Mr. Trump and his White House by loyalists  friends and hangers-on with their own policy agendas or business interests.But it is also because few of Washington’s established lobbyists have close connections to the president. In their place  a new class of insider has emerged  able to lobby the president directly on behalf of clients or business partners  an uncommon opportunity in prior administrations  when lobbyists focused on winning support from lawmakers or regulators.In a statement  Mr. Broidy said the success of his company reflected his recruitment of “the best people  including a number of former flag officers ” not his political connections. “The idea that our success derives from activities around last year’s presidential inauguration is not only misplaced but insulting to the careers and capabilities of our highly trained and decorated veterans ” he said.Mr. Broidy  60  in some ways personifies this new breed of Trump insider. A lifelong Los Angeles resident who worked as an accountant before making a fortune as an investor  Mr. Broidy grew more interested in politics after the Sept. 11 attacks  which shaped his hawkish approach to foreign policy and concern for the defense of Israel. In 2005  he was appointed to a federal homeland security advisory panel.AdvertisementMr. Broidy pleaded guilty in 2009 to giving nearly $1 million in illegal gifts to New York state officials to help his company land a $250 million contract with the state’s public pension fund. He paid $18 million in restitution and avoided jail time.As he worked to rebuild his bank account and reputation  he expanded his business interests in the defense and security industry  starting a company called Threat Deterrence in 2013 and purchasing Circinus in July 2015.Mr. Broidy initially supported Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016  embracing Mr. Trump only after Mr. Cruz dropped out.His business took off after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus has won lucrative work from around the world  including contracts worth more than $200 million to do defense work for the United Arab Emirates. And Mr. Broidy openly promoted Circinus’s work in meetings with Mr. Trump and other Republican officials  according to documents and interviews.But Mr. Broidy faces a sudden backlash.One of his business partners  George Nader   is cooperating with the special counsel  whose investigators have asked about Mr. Nader’s contacts with top Trump administration officials as well as his possible role in funneling money from the U.A.E. to Mr. Trump’s political efforts  according to people familiar with the inquiry.Mr. Nader helped Circinus gain access to U.A.E.’s crown prince  while also using Mr. Broidy as a conduit  to shape Trump administration policy toward the Persian Gulf on behalf of the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia  both American allies. Mr. Broidy  in turn  appears to have helped Mr. Nader get his photograph taken with Mr. Trump at a fund-raiser  over the unspecified objections of the Secret Service. Mr. Nader has been convicted on charges related to child pornography and sexual abuse of minors.Hundreds of pages of Mr. Broidy’s emails  proposals and contracts were provided to The Times by an anonymous group critical of Mr. Broidy’s advocacy of American foreign policies in the Middle East. Mr. Broidy’s representatives say they have proof that the documents were stolen by hackers working for Qatar in retaliation for his efforts to rally opposition in Washington to Qatar  a regional nemesis of the Saudis and the Emiratis. The Qataris dismiss this charge.The documents reveal that Mr. Broidy  a vice chairman of the finance committee for Mr. Trump’s inauguration  arranged invitations to parties celebrating the event for foreign leaders with whom Circinus worked to sign contracts that could have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Broidy in some cases presented the invitations in a manner that suggested they were linked to their countries’ willingness to do business with Circinus.AdvertisementFor instance  Mr. Broidy invited Denis Sassou-Nguesso  the longtime president of the Republic of Congo  to a handful of inauguration week events  including the candlelight dinner featuring Mr. Trump  Vice President Mike Pence and their wives. “Your name has been submitted and approved ” Mr. Broidy wrote to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso in a note on Broidy Capital Management letterhead. Mr. Broidy stressed that the invitation was from Mr. Broidy and “is not coming from the Joint Congressional Committee” on Inaugural Ceremonies  which oversees the swearing-in and a luncheon at the Capitol.The day after the letter was dated  Mr. Broidy asked his team at Circinus to prepare an invoice for $2 million to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso’s office for “military capabilities assessment and review/services ” according to emails and documents.People close to Mr. Broidy said no invoice was sent and Circinus never worked for the Congolese government. Mr. Sassou-Nguesso declined the invitation to the inauguration festivities  they said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Donors to previous inaugurations were also able to invite foreign heads of state to events as their guests  a spokesman for Mr. Broidy noted.Two officials from Romania  another prospective Circinus client  met Mr. Trump at a private party to which Mr. Broidy invited them during inauguration week at the Trump International Hotel near the White House. Liviu Dragnea  a parliamentary leader who runs the Social Democratic Party  called for closer ties between Romania and the United States  prompting Mr. Trump to declare  “We will make it happen! Romania is important for us!” according to Mr. Dragnea’s Facebook post  reported by McClatchy.At the time  Mr. Dragnea faced corruption charges  which he continues to fight. But for months after the inauguration  Circinus continued pitching his government partly on the access it could provide to Mr. Trump  according to a person who works with the Romanian government and was briefed on the solicitation.Circinus has yet to receive contracts from Romania  people close to Mr. Broidy said. The company entered into an agreement last month with a Romanian government-owned defense company that appears to give it the inside track for contracts valued at more than $200 million  according to Romanian news media and people familiar with the contracting process.Similarly  in a letter dated Jan. 3  2017  and emailed to top Angolan government officials  Mr. Broidy indicated that he was also sending both an invitation to the inauguration festivities and a proposal for Circinus to provide security services for Angola. In one version of the proposal  the company sought nearly $64 million over five years. “With numerous preparations ahead  we request that you kindly return the executed document no later than January 9  2017 ” Mr. Broidy wrote in the letter to João Lourenço  then the Angolan defense minister  and another Angolan official.Three days before inauguration  the Angolans submitted a $6 million payment to Circinus  which people close to Mr. Broidy say was $2 million less than the Angolans had agreed to pay. That same day  the Angolans and Mr. Broidy met on Capitol Hill with senators including Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin  both Republicans  encounters arranged by Mr. Broidy and his team.About one month later  Mr. Broidy again wrote to Mr. Lourenço  discussing plans for him “to be joining us at Mira Largo” — an apparent reference to Mar-a-Lago  where Mr. Broidy is a member and has been spotted introducing guests to the president — “this coming weekend.”Advertisement“Many preparations have been made in advance of your visit  including additional meetings at the Capitol and the Department of Treasury ” Mr. Broidy wrote.He went on to remind Mr. Lourenço that Angola was past due on “the balance of the payment” for Circinus’s services. “Please make this payment immediately ” he wrote.Not long after Mr. Lourenço was inaugurated as president of Angola in September  Mr. Broidy wrote again to congratulate him and offer to help set up meetings with Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence. “Before the formalities which would naturally be in order between our governments  I am able to assess and advise in this matter  and would be delighted to help foster such closer relation between Luanda and Washington ” Mr. Broidy wrote  referring to the Angolan capital.Mr. Lourenço did not come to Mar-a-Lago and never responded to the letters  according to people close to Mr. Broidy. Circinus never collected any additional funds from Angola beyond the initial $6 million payment  they said.Mr. Broidy emphasizes to potential clients how his connections to Mr. Trump could benefit them  according to several people who have worked with him or heard his pitches.“He was mentioning that he has political connections  and it could be helpful ” said Eymen Errais  a counselor to the Tunisian Ministry of Development  Investment and International Cooperation.Mr. Errais and the department’s minister  Fadhel Abdelkefi  met with Mr. Broidy and Circinus executives in Tunisia a few weeks after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus sought a contract to build an open-source intelligence center for the Tunisian government  a person familiar with the meeting said  but Mr. Abdelkefi’s ministry instead sought to persuade Mr. Broidy to invest in the Tunisian hospitality industry.AdvertisementNonetheless  in an email to Mr. Abdelkefi just after the meeting  Mr. Broidy vowed that the center “would be an extremely useful and effective tool for your government” and again emphasized his connection to Mr. Trump. He characterized the incoming administration as “an unprecedented opportunity  in that the House  Senate and executive branch of our government are all under Republican control for the first time in 10 years.”Circinus prepared a proposal for a five-year contract totaling $80 million for the Tunisian work. But Mr. Errais said the Tunisians decided not to do business with Circinus. “A connection with Trump — how would that help us for security?” he said.A person close to Mr. Broidy said he discussed the Republicans’ control of Congress and the White House to suggest that the American government might increase spending on counterterrorism.Mr. Broidy’s allies say he has never hidden the overlap between his business interests and his political activity. In a memorandum about an October Oval Office meeting  for example  Mr. Broidy wrote that he had volunteered to Mr. Trump that his company was seeking a contract from the United Arab Emirates and had tried to arrange a private meeting for the president to discuss the matter with their leader  Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.But as scrutiny has mounted around Mr. Broidy  Republican officials signaled that he would be a distraction at a high-dollar fund-raiser with Mr. Trump this month in Los Angeles. Mr. Broidy helped plan it and was listed as a co-host.After conversations with Ronna McDaniel  the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee  he volunteered not to attend  according to people briefed on the situation.The dinner and round-table with the president proceeded without him.Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington  and David D. Kirkpatrick from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Marketing Ties to Trump  Top Donor Made Millions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  4:28 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Adult film star Stormy Daniels is suing President Donald Trump's lawyer Michael Cohen for defamation after he called into question her claim that she had a sexual encounter with Trump  according to court documents filed on Monday.In the filing in federal court in Los Angeles  Daniels' attorney said "Cohen meant to convey that Ms. Clifford is a liar  someone who should not be trusted  and that her claims about her relationship with Mr. Trump is 'something (that) isn’t true.'"(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  10:52 A.M. E.D.T.
The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump  @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- The economy is looking really good. It has been many years that we have seen these kind of numbers. The underlying strength of companies has perhaps never been better. [0705 EDT]- So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all  our country is doing great! [0840 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and KENNETH P. VOGELMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump kept a relatively low profile and did not make any public appearances on Tuesday  but emerged for a rare evening trip outside the White House to meet with deep-pocketed donors at a real estate developer’s home in Virginia.Mr. Trump  who usually prefers a steak served at his own hotel if he leaves the confines of the White House at night  traveled to the McLean  Va.  home of Giuseppe Cecchi  according to a person with knowledge of the president’s plans. Mr. Cecchi is a loyalist who previously hosted Mr. Trump for a $10 000-a-couple fund-raising dinner in the final weeks of the 2016 presidential campaign.Since arriving back in Washington on Sunday from his Florida estate  Mr. Trump’s schedule showed no public appearances and he kept his usual tweeting to a minimum.He has opted instead to leave it to his aides to field questions about a continuing investigation into his campaign’s contact with Russia  allegations by a pornographic actress that his lawyer paid her to stay silent about an affair  a move to expel 60 Russian diplomats and his administration’s support for adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census.AdvertisementThe White House declined to offer additional information about the dinner  but stressed that it was not a fund-raiser.Advertisement“Tonight  the president will be having dinner with a group of supporters at a private residence in Virginia ” said Lindsay Walters  a deputy White House press secretary. “This dinner is not a fund-raiser. No funds have been solicited.”It was the second time this month that Mr. Trump traveled to a private home to meet with donors. Financial executives  an oil billionaire and the president’s oldest son  Donald Trump Jr.  also attended the dinner at the home of a prominent lawyer.Even if no funds are raised at Tuesday’s dinner  it is part of a series of events intended to cultivate donors for two groups created to back Mr. Trump — America First Policies  a nonprofit formed to support his agenda  and America First Action  a “super PAC” that is supporting the campaigns of his allies and eventually his re-election campaign.The groups  which are seeking to raise $100 million this year  have hosted a series of events featuring Mr. Trump and top administration officials  including Vice President Mike Pence.Earlier on Tuesday  Mr. Pence headlined an “America First” rally in Fargo  N.D.“They’re trying to rally people around the tax cuts  and show how they have impacted local communities ” said Dan K. Eberhart  an Arizona oil investor and Republican donor who is an adviser to America First Policies and who attended the Fargo event.Headed into the 2018 midterm elections  Republicans are mostly facing a treacherous landscape in which they fear that Mr. Trump could be a liability in suburban districts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.America First intends to help balance the playing field  partly by dispatching administration officials into areas that Mr. Trump won handily in 2016  and partly by raising money from wealthy supporters to fund ads bolstering Republicans.The involvement of Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence is considered a key to the fund-raising efforts of the groups.AdvertisementAmerica First Policies and America First Action are overseen by the veteran Republican operative Brian O. Walsh.“America First Action is extremely honored to host President Trump as our special guest  along with supporters and friends of our organization ” he said in a statement. “We ensure that our activities at all times remain in full compliance with the law and ethics rules.”America First Action has been a popular source of income for Trump loyalists  including Corey Lewandowski  and the president’s newly named re-election campaign manager  Brad Parscale. The group’s goal with the dinners is to connect supporters of Mr. Trump with policy leaders  and to give face time to the people who had shown the president the most support  a person with knowledge of the process said.In 2016  Mr. Cecchi and his wife  Mercedes  also hosted donors at his home. Mr. Cecchi who at one point was known as the “condo king” of Washington  is known for developing the Watergate complex.For that event  attendees had to pay $10 000 to $100 000 for a photo opportunity with Mr. Trump and the chance to mingle with Reince Priebus  then the chairman of the Republican National Committee  and Steven T. Mnuchin  the finance chairman at the time for the Trump campaign.Mr. Cecchi could not be reached for comment. When reached by telephone  Mr. Cecchi’s son John did not offer further details of the event.“Whatever he’s doing ” John Cecchi  who was on the host committee of the 2016 event  said of his father  “I’m sure he’s psyched about it.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Meets With Donors In Virginia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michelle GoldbergBecause there is broad consensus that Donald Trump is a lewd degenerate  nothing Stormy Daniels  the pornographic film actress and director  told “60 Minutes” about their alleged 2006 sexual encounter was particularly astonishing. (Though the mental image of Trump dropping his pants at Daniels’s command for a spanking will likely dampen libidos throughout the land.)Everyone knows Trump is a disloyal husband  so it’s no shock that he slept with Daniels — and  at about the same time  with the former Playboy model Karen McDougal — while his wife  Melania Trump  was caring for their new baby.Everyone also knows that Trump has a repulsive compulsion to sexualize his daughter Ivanka — he once happily concurred with Howard Stern that she was a “piece of ass” — so it’s not surprising that he told Daniels she reminded him of his child before he slept with her. (According to McDougal  Trump said something similar to her.)Nevertheless  the Daniels interview aired on Sunday was important  portending danger for both Trump and his personal lawyer Michael Cohen. As I’ve written before  the Daniels affair is a corruption scandal disguised as a sex scandal. And on the corruption front  we learned things on Sunday that could help unravel Trump’s wretched presidency.Daniels’s most shocking disclosure was her account of being threatened  apparently on Trump’s behalf  in 2011  a few weeks after agreeing to tell her story to a gossip magazine for $15 000. She said she was in a parking lot with her infant daughter when a man approached and said: “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then  she said  he looked at the baby and warned  “A beautiful little girl — it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”There was another  less direct threat earlier this year  Daniels said  after The Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen had arranged a $130 000 hush money payment to her before the 2016 election. Both her former attorney and her former business manager  she told “60 Minutes ” pressured her to sign statements denying the tryst and the payoff  saying of the Trump camp  “They can make your life hell in many different ways.”In a statement from his lawyer on Monday  Cohen denied threatening Daniels  and said he didn’t believe the parking lot encounter ever happened. But Michael Avenatti  the aggressive  mediagenic lawyer who took on Daniels’s case this year  is convinced the attempted intimidation originated with the Trump camp  and he told me he “absolutely” has evidence about the threat that has not yet become public.Avenatti has been strategically — if maddeningly — coy about just what he’s holding back. Last Thursday  he tweeted  “If ‘a picture is worth a thousand words ’ how many words is this worth? ” accompanied by a photo of a CD or DVD. Whatever was on that disc  we didn’t see it on Sunday. “In no way would we play our entire hand on ‘60 Minutes ’” he told me.Of course  he could be bluffing. But if he’s not  this case could provide a crucial window into Trump’s thuggish way of doing business.Right now  Daniels and Avenatti are fighting to have the nondisclosure agreement she signed in 2016 declared null and void. If she signed it because she felt threatened  that strengthens her position. As the suit proceeds  said Norman Eisen  the chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington  “Stormy and her lawyer will be able to bring in a lot of evidence of other threats associated with Trump.”There’s already quite a bit in the public domain  some thanks to BuzzFeed News  which obtained F.B.I. reports on cases involving threats made by alleged Trump associates. In 1995  the site reported  security guards working for Trump “shoved  threatened and held a 12-year-old boy and his mother against their will ” in an attempt to silence a whistle-blower. In 2009  BuzzFeed News’s Jason Leopold wrote  a lawyer representing investors who stood to lose over $1 billion in Trump’s casino bankruptcy got a threatening phone call. We “know where you live and we’re going to your house for your wife and kids ” the caller said.If you can find this and more with a Google search  imagine what Avenatti might uncover through the legal process of discovery.The fact-finding potential of the case expanded further on Monday  when Avenatti filed a revised complaint in Federal District Court in California. The part that made headlines is that Daniels is now suing Cohen for defamation. More significant  though  is Avenatti’s claim that the original hush agreement is invalid in part because it “was entered with the illegal aim  design and purpose of circumventing federal campaign finance law.”If the case proceeds  Avenatti could get a look inside the Trump campaign. “The amended allegations will provide me and my team with significantly more discovery relating to what Mr. Trump knew  when he knew about it  and what he did about it  if anything ” Avenatti told me on Monday evening.Will the new strategy work? “I think it’s well done ” Eisen told me  though far from a sure thing. I don’t want to get my hopes up about a porn star saving the republic. But I can scarcely think of a more satisfying way for this terrible era to end.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@michelleinbklyn) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardIn a last-minute move that would give Republicans an advantage in maintaining control of the House of Representatives  the Trump administration is reinstating a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. Coming from an administration that has been hostile toward immigrants  the change was not surprising  but it’s galling nonetheless.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross announced the decision Monday  less than a week before the Census Bureau  which his department oversees  is supposed to send final questions for the 2020 census to Congress. If his decision stands — the attorney general of California has filed a lawsuit to block it  and other elected officials are preparing to do so — it would be the first time in 70 years that the federal government has asked people to specify their citizenship status on the census form sent to every household.This is important because the census count determines how many House seats each state gets. The census is also used to determine the allocation of more than $600 billion in federal spending  including Medicaid  food stamps and grants to schools. Asking about citizenship would reduce responses from immigrant families  which are already less likely than others to answer government surveys and are terrified by President Trump’s anti-immigrant policies and statements. An inaccurate count is likely to provide more representation to states with fewer immigrants and higher response rates and take seats away from states like California where response rates would be lower. Given the geography of American politics  that would probably lead to more power for Republicans  and less for Democrats. Experts say even citizens and permanent residents would be less likely to respond if they have relatives who are undocumented immigrants.Mr. Ross’s decision was based on the disingenuous argument that the Department of Justice needs to know the citizenship status of residents in each census tract so it can better protect the rights of minority voters under the Voting Rights Act. Even putting aside the laughable notion that this administration cares about minority voting rights  this argument is bunkum — the Justice Department has been enforcing that law without access to such data for decades. The last census that asked people to report their citizenship status was conducted in 1950  15 years before the Voting Rights Act became law. What’s more  the Justice Department already has access to citizenship data through the American Community Survey  which is conducted every year.The timing of this change is highly suspect. It comes too late to be included in a field test of the 2020 census the government is conducting right now with 275 000 households in Providence County  R.I. In his memo  Mr. Ross sought to play down concerns that the citizenship question would reduce response rates by claiming there was no “empirical evidence” to back up that argument. Yet  by seeking to insert the question so late in the process  he has prevented officials from empirically testing how people will react to it.The evidence that does exist shows that concerns that the citizenship question would curb participation are legitimate. The Census Bureau reported in a September memo that its surveyors were encountering significant resistance from immigrants about providing personal information because they feared it would not be kept confidential. “The immigrant is not going to trust the census employee when they are continuously hearing a contradicting message from the media every day threatening to deport immigrants ” one Arabic-speaking respondent told the bureau.Even Mr. Ross acknowledged in an October House hearing that adding questions to the census reduced response rates because “the more things you ask in those forms  the less likely you are to get them in.”This is not the first time the Trump administration has sought to compromise the integrity of the census. Last year  the bureau limited its field test to Rhode Island because  it said  it didn’t have the money for tests in Washington State and West Virginia. In his budget request to Congress  the president asked for a modest increase in census funds  far less than what most experts say is needed. (Last week  lawmakers increased the bureau’s budget by $1.34 billion  about twice what he had sought.) The administration has also undermined the bureau by failing to nominate a leader since the agency’s last permanent director left in June. And  until recently  the administration was considering as deputy director a political-science professor who has argued for partisan gerrymandering and against competitive elections.By now  many people have come to expect that Mr. Trump will inject politics into every decision. But even by this administration’s low standards  trifling with the census  which is required by the Constitution and is a foundation of American democracy  represents a serious breach of trust.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEARMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump said Tuesday that several thousand Liberians who have been living in the United States under a temporary immigrant status will have one year to return to their country or they will face deportation.The president said in a memo to the secretary of state that he was formally ending a program that has allowed Liberian immigrants to remain in the United States and work legally since 1999  when President Bill Clinton established it in response to conditions in the country after a civil war.More than 800 000 Liberians were displaced by the war and fled the country. Some sought refuge in the United States.The program  known as Deferred Enforced Departure  has been renewed for Liberians since  giving the immigrants the ability to remain in the United States without fear of deportation. But in the memo  Mr. Trump cited the improved conditions in Liberia as evidence that the program was no longer needed.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Liberia is no longer experiencing armed conflict and has made significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance ” Mr. Trump wrote. “Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts  which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals.”AdvertisementAdvocates for Liberians in the United States had urged Mr. Trump to simply extend the protections. Members of Congress from Minnesota  which has the largest Liberian population in the country  wrote a letter to Mr. Trump this month to echo those requests.Advertisement“Many of these people have been in our state for decades  and they are an important part of our communities  where they serve as business owners  teachers and health care workers ” the lawmakers wrote  asking for an extension of the program.On Tuesday  Emira Woods  a Liberian-American advocate for immigrants  described the president’s decision as a mixed bag. She noted the year that Liberians have before facing deportation  but said ending the program would force them to abandon lives in the United States. “Many of these Liberians had children in the United States ” she said.The Deferred Enforced Departure program for Liberians was scheduled to expire Saturday. Though he declined to renew the program  Mr. Trump ordered what he called an “orderly transition” so that Liberians living in the United States could get their affairs in order before returning to Liberia. That period will extend for 12 months  Mr. Trump wrote.The decision about the Liberian program mirrors the actions the Trump administration has taken toward other  larger groups of immigrants in the United States. Since taking office  the president has ended temporary protected status for certain immigrants from El Salvador  Haiti  Nicaragua and Sudan  arguing that conditions have improved significantly in those countries.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Temporary  Status Ends For Liberians In the U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  5:39 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is ending a program that allows citizens of Liberia living in the U.S. to avoid deportation. But it's allowing a one-year "wind-down" period to ease their return.Liberians have been eligible for Deferred Enforcement Departure since 1999. The program  which began under President Bill Clinton  and was extended during the Bush and Obama administrations  allows people from the country to live and work legally in the U.S.  It's similar to another program called "Temporary Protected Status " which the Trump administration also has worked to scale back.In a memorandum issued Tuesday  President Donald Trump said Liberia is "no longer experiencing armed conflict" and has made "significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance.""Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts  which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals " he wrote.AdvertisementRight now  839 Liberian citizens have valid work status under the program  according to the Department of Homeland Security.To provide an "orderly transition" and give Liberia's government time to "reintegrate" citizens who have to return  beneficiaries will be given a 12-month window during which they're still allowed to live in the U.S. and work.AdvertisementThe protections  which Trump had until March 30 to renew  will now expire March 31  2019.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardIn this time of political division  the broad story line of the omnibus spending bill approved late last week is largely a heartening one. With the Democratic leadership in full resistance mode and the Republicans facing a treacherous political climate in the fall elections  Congress repudiated President Trump’s extreme budget cuts in rare bipartisan fashion. In doing so  it protected a range of domestic programs the president had targeted for huge reductions  if not outright elimination  and sent an infuriated Mr. Trump scuttling off to Mar-a-Lago with yet another problem to worry about: a mediocre Congress making a lazy president look even worse by actually accomplishing something.A cynic observing this unusual Capitol Hill lovefest could plausibly argue that it’s easy enough for Republicans and Democrats to link arms when there’s serious money to be spent. And it is: There is plenty of old-fashioned pork in this bill. Even so  it is hard to argue with an outcome that preserved and in some cases increased funding for vital health  education  foreign aid  infrastructure and environmental programs while providing a fraction of what Mr. Trump wanted for his border wall — the presumed reason for his choleric withdrawal to his Florida fortress.There is another story line within the broader one  and it too is heartening: the willingness of the Democratic leadership to stand up to mischief-makers in Congress itself. A bill of this magnitude —$1.3 trillion altogether  including hundreds of billions for the military — is fertile ground for legislators who wish to sneak in provisions that are unlikely to survive on their own and thus need the protective cover of a big must-pass bill. As a rule  these so-called riders have nothing to do with spending and are aimed primarily at changing policy or undermining basic laws.Most of the most damaging riders in the bill were devised by Republicans and involved environmental policy. Among other things  they would have delayed enforcement of clean-air regulations  killed two Obama-era rules aimed at reducing greenhouse gases from oil and gas wells  weakened protections for endangered species and insulated the Trump administration from legal challenges to its efforts to repeal clean-water rules.That these and many more riders were deleted from the bill is a tribute to Senator Charles Schumer of New York  the Democratic leader  and Senate allies like Patrick Leahy of Vermont  Tom Udall of New Mexico and Thomas Carper of Delaware  all willing to annoy some powerful interests along the way. Lisa Murkowski  Republican from Alaska and chairwoman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee  had hoped to torpedo protections for old growth trees in Alaska’s forests. Thad Cochran  Republican from Mississippi  had hoped for a retirement present after 40 years in the Senate in the form of a flood-control project known as the Yazoo Pumps  a bad idea that has been kicking around for decades and would drain 200 000 acres of wetlands in the Mississippi Delta so that soybean farmers  who have drunk liberally from the public trough  could plant more crops. Both he and Ms. Murkowski were denied.The budget for the Environmental Protection Agency  which Mr. Trump proposed to cut by 31 percent  stayed even. Funding for energy-efficiency and renewable-energy programs  facing a 70 percent cut  went up. Money for the Land and Water Conservation Fund  a vehicle for protecting threatened open space  rose to $425 million  far more than the $64 million in the president’s budget.Congress’s generosity is unlikely to enlarge the cramped vision of the people who run the agencies most responsible for the environment — the E.P.A. and the Interior and Energy Departments — and whose driving impulse has been to roll back any Obama-era initiative that discomfits the coal  oil and gas industries. All in all  however  Friday was a sunny day for the environmental and scientific communities  which have known nothing but gloomy days since the moment Mr. Trump took office. It’s time they got a good one.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:58 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Elliott Broidy  a top Republican fundraiser  sued Qatar on Monday  accusing the Gulf state of pilfering and leaking emails in retribution for his attempts to influence the Trump administration in favor of regional rivals of Qatar.In the lawsuit  filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles  Broidy accused Qatar and its agents of hacking into his and his wife's email accounts and providing the stolen documents  via U.S.-based lobbyists  to media outlets in order to plant damaging articles about him.The lawsuit  which seeks unspecified damages  says some of the leaked materials were doctored."We believe the evidence is clear that a nation state is waging a sophisticated disinformation campaign against me in order to silence me " Broidy said in a statement.The lawsuit adds a new dimension to a diplomatic crisis in the Gulf set off when the United Arab Emirates  Saudi Arabia  Bahrain and Egypt imposed sanctions on Qatar last June.AdvertisementThe boycott was based on allegations that Qatar supports Islamic extremists and regional foe Iran. Qatar denies the charges.AdvertisementJassim Al-Thani  a spokesman at Qatar's embassy in Washington  described the lawsuit as an attempt by Broidy to divert attention from media scrutiny on his activities."It is Mr. Broidy  not Qatar  who orchestrated nefarious activities designed to influence Congress and American foreign policy " Al-Thani said in a statement.Broidy  a vocal critic of Qatar  met with Trump in September and tried to set up an informal meeting between the president and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan of the UAE  according to a person familiar with the matter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While the meeting did not materialize  the episode highlighted the influential role Broidy  the deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee  has developed in the administration.Broidy  whose company is based in California  finalized more than $200 million worth of defense contracts with the UAE government and is in talks on similar deals with Saudi Arabia  the lawsuit says.Broidy cited several articles that he believes were prompted by the leaking of his emails and other documents.Broidy claims Al Jazeera published an article on March 8 based on falsified documents accusing him of entering into a lobbying contract in 2014 with a Russian bank under U.S. sanctions.Al Jazeera did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.Broidy accused Nicolas Muzin  a Washington-based lobbyist whose firm has a $300 000 per month contract with Qatar  of helping to wage a campaign to discredit Broidy's efforts to "educate the American people about Qatar." Muzin was also named as a defendant in the suit."Mr Broidy’s lawsuit is an obvious attempt to draw attention away from his controversial work  and is as flimsy as the promises he reportedly made to his clients " Muzin said in a statement  saying he was proud of the work he did for Qatar.Advertisement(Reporting by Nathan Layne and Karen Freifeld in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »After 21 years  “Roseanne” returns to ABC  and Roseanne Barr’s portrait of working-class Americans is as topical as ever.By PATRICK HEALYMARCH 27  2018
When last we saw Roseanne Conner  in 1997  the character was sitting alone on that old living room couch  after revealing that her husband  Dan  had died of a heart attack and that all nine seasons of “Roseanne” had been a grief-induced fantasy about her family. (Or something like that.)Now Roseanne is back  the fantasy is out and Trump is in.The show’s Emmy-winning star  Roseanne Barr  returns Tuesday night to ABC with a nine-episode revival season. Dan’s back too  once again played by John Goodman  as is daughter Darlene (Sara Gilbert  who is also an executive producer) and much of the original cast.“Roseanne” was a bona fide trailblazer the first time around  with its focus on blue-collar Americans  its diversity of L.G.B.T. characters  and its star — a woman who did not look or sound like a typical television female lead. The new “Roseanne” is topical in its own ways  starting with Roseanne Conner’s full-throated support for President Trump. Ms. Barr is a Trump backer as well  to the dismay of many fans; she argued on “Jimmy Kimmel” recently that supporting Mr. Trump was critical to keeping Mike Pence from the presidency.Ms. Barr  now 65 and living in Hawaii where she has a macadamia nut farm  recently spoke by phone with Patrick Healy  the politics editor and a former culture reporter and editor at The Times  about the “Roseanne” revival  her stormy past on the show  her views on women in Hollywood and her feelings about President Trump. This interview has been edited and condensed.AdvertisementIt’s been 21 years since “Roseanne” went off the air. Did you miss being Roseanne Conner?No. I did a lot of other things.You ran for president in 2012. What was that about?To bring up questions and conversation that I wasn’t hearing anywhere. Specifically  how the public’s money never ends up going to the public.Why play Roseanne again?Everybody seemed to be into it and  you know  the conditions that I wanted were right.AdvertisementWhat conditions?I wanted somebody else to do the work that I wasn’t good at  and to let me do the work that I was good at. I don’t like arguing with people. I just am over it and I don’t like fighting. So I got — Sara Gilbert stepped into that role nicely.The last time around  you were the star and the idea engine for the show  but you threatened to quit  over creative conflicts. It was incredible this time. I was very protected and respected. I wasn’t having to explain why I wanted things.Thirty years ago when “Roseanne” started  what were you treated like?I was just not respected as a woman artist  but you know I think I paid my dues and some time passed and the world changed.Do you think women have more opportunities today in Hollywood to tell the stories they want to tell?I don’t know. There’s a lot more women who are featured  but I don’t know if they are doing what they really want to do.Did you have any worries about coming back to the role? No. I was excited to do it because I realized that was going to be the only opportunity I would get to act  because I’m kind of typecast as me. But I loved acting. And everybody really got a lot better in their acting chops  so that was great. How are you different than during the last run of “Roseanne”?Well  I’m older  and I’ve been through menopause  so that was great. I’m a grandma now. I’m older and wiser. I appreciate things better  and appreciate having an opportunity at age 65 to come back and do what I love to do.What kind of stories did you want to tell on the new “Roseanne”?How families are still struggling and what they do about it. There’s an arc in this season  and it’s the closest I’ve been to doing what I want to do. It’s about everything in our country. It’s about opioids and health care. How we deal with whole new issues that we didn’t even have before  like gender-fluid kids. How working class people — how and why they elected Trump.Get the most out of your screen time with movie and TV recommendations  news and commentary from New York Times experts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Roseanne Conner has become a Trump supporter. How did that happen?I just wanted to have that dialogue about families torn apart by the election and their political differences of opinion and how we handle it. I thought that this was an important thing to say at this time.AdvertisementWas it your idea for Roseanne to back Trump?Yes. Because it’s an accurate portrayal of these people and people like them. In terms of what they think  and how they feel when they are the ones who send their kids over to fight. We’ve been in wars for a long  long time  which everybody seems to forget — but working class people don’t forget it because their kids are in it.Trump has had tough words for ABC. Did you get any pushback from ABC about making Roseanne a Trump supporter?Not from ABC  no.From who?Everyone else in the world.Why do you think?You know  people only want to see — they want to stick to their narrative and they don’t want it shaken up. But  you know  I was like  ‘Oh  here we go. I’m just the person for this job.’Considering that Trump opposes many of the principles that you and Roseanne Conner have stood for  how can you support him?No  he doesn’t  I don’t think he does. I don’t think so at all. I think he voices them quite well.I’m thinking of abortion rights  same-sex marriage rights  labor protections —He doesn’t oppose same-sex marriage.He doesn’t favor it. He has not come out in favor of it.He does. Yes  he does. He has said it several times  you know  that he’s not homophobic at all.AdvertisementWhat about labor union protections and blue collar workers  and What do you mean  the — oh  let’s not get into this.[A representative for Ms. Barr interjected: “You don’t have to get into it. We can move on.”]Well  you know  it’s —Yes  let’s do.A question people wonder about.Well  I think working-class people were pissed off about Clinton and NAFTA  so let’s start there. That’s what broke all the unions and we lost all our jobs  so I think that’s a large part of why they voted for Trump because they didn’t want to see it continue  where our jobs are shipped away. So  it’s more  why did people support shipping our jobs away?Why is Trump O.K. but Pence is objectionable  by your lights?I think Pence is not as good as Trump  not as accepting  and not as  you know — I think that he’s way more radical.O.K. Let’s talk about the impact “Roseanne” had as a show. I remember your same-sex kiss with Mariel Hemingway in 1994 and all the queer characters on her show. Do you think that paved the way for the L.G.B.T. characters that followed?I don’t know. You’ll have to ask somebody else. It’s not up to me to say those things.But you thought those were important stories at the time  right?I wouldn’t have taken the heat that I took if I didn’t think it was an important thing to do. Just like now. I’m taking a lot of heat  and if I didn’t think that I was right and that it was important  by God  I wouldn’t be doing it.
                Before the reboot arrives  revisit some of the family sitcom’s smartest  funniest and most poignant episodes.            How has America changed since the first incarnation of “Roseanne”? How has that affected the current show’s humor?AdvertisementSame jokes  same kind of thing. Just trying to get through paycheck to paycheck and handle it. Having no jobs and people losing their homes and you know that never  ever being talked about on television.How did you guys address whether to have John come back since his character Dan is dead?I always knew how I would do it  and I wrote it. Once John was in  I thought  well  I’m going to get a chance to continue the story that I always wanted to tell.A lot of fans are wondering  how should we regard Dan’s death?Well  I can’t tip it. You’ll see in the first show.A lot of people thought the last season of “Roseanne” was pretty bad. In hindsight  do you?No. I love it. I just watched a few of them and they were really funny. It was a departure though  but once you see why  you know I think it explains it all.How many seasons do you think the new Roseanne will continue?We all want to keep doing it so we just hope people like it and they watch it  and it gets renewed  you know  we all want that.Is there a new character or story line you think is kind of a trailblazer  like the show was the last time around?I like that Darlene’s a mom now because my kids are all parents. I thought that would ring a bell with most people  my age anyway. Like what are you doing with these kids? And it’s fun to have Darlene and her kids living in the house because we really get to dissect and discuss parenting.Do you have an arc in mind for the next season if it comes to be?Oh  yeah  of course I do. A family grows older.Is Dan still alive?Oh  yeah  hopefully. Hopefully we’re all going to be alive.A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page AR12 of the New York edition with the headline: Roseanne on the Older  Newer ‘Roseanne’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:35 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Leaders of Orange County  California on Tuesday voted to join a federal lawsuit against the state's sanctuary law as part of a growing backlash in some conservative parts of California to state laws that protect illegal immigrants from deportation.The board of supervisors of the Republican-controlled county voted unanimously to condemn a California law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities  according to county records.The U.S. Justice Department sued California this month over its immigration laws  a move California's Democratic Governor Jerry Brown said was akin to declaring war on the most populous U.S. state.The issue of illegal immigrants has become increasingly heated in the United States since Donald Trump became president in 2017 and signaled that he planned to target a wider swath of people for deportation.AdvertisementU.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made combating illegal immigration a top priority and is trying to crack down on primarily Democrat-governed cities and states that he claims are "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants.AdvertisementEarlier on Tuesday  the U.S. Justice Department and West Palm Beach  Florida agreed to settle a lawsuit over whether the city was promoting "sanctuary city" policies to protect illegal immigrants from deportation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under the deal  the city agreed to tell all its employees via a memo that they were permitted to share information such as citizenship status with the Department of Homeland Security during the course of their job.The Democratic-leaning city sued the U.S. government in February  after the Justice Department sent it a letter demanding it hand over documents to prove it was complying with a federal law that requires municipalities to share information with immigration officials about inmates housed in local jails.The Justice Department has tried to block cities with sanctuary policies from receiving federal grant funding  leading to legal battles across the country.West Palm Beach is one of 23 cities and states - including New York  Los Angeles and Chicago - that received letters from the Justice Department in January demanding documentary proof of compliance with the law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andrew Hay; Editing by Leslie Adler and Sam Holmes)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN and NICHOLAS FANDOSMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump wants to replace his secretary of veterans affairs  David Shulkin  but for a man who practically trademarked “You’re fired ” the president is reluctant to pull the trigger  choosing instead to leave the embattled secretary twisting amid reports of his imminent ouster.Mr. Shulkin  a former hospital executive and medical doctor who remains widely popular on Capitol Hill  has so far averted his gaze from the White House and pressed on with his duties  albeit with a diminished profile.The peculiar  painful dance between the president and his once-prized veterans affairs chief has become a symbol for how Mr. Trump often handles personnel matters — publicly  without concern for ending the drama quickly  and with a hope that offending employees will decide to leave instead of forcing the president to oust them. In this case  the standoff has left rudderless a vast federal bureaucracy of about 370 000 employees that serves more than 20 million veterans.Exactly when the latest White House drama would conclude was still uncertain on Tuesday. Mr. Trump told friends over the weekend that he planned to fire Mr. Shulkin in the immediate future. But Monday came and went without any change and the president’s advisers said he had no clear option for an immediate successor.AdvertisementRaj Shah  a deputy White House press secretary  told reporters on Monday afternoon that he had “no personnel announcements to make at this time ” when asked to characterize the relationship between the two men.AdvertisementThe reversal of fortunes for Mr. Shulkin  a rare holdover from the Obama administration  has been swift. For months  as Mr. Shulkin delivered a series of bipartisan legislative victories to a White House badly in need of them  Mr. Trump showered him in praise. At one such bill-signing ceremony in June  Mr. Trump teased that the secretary need never worry about hearing his “Apprentice”-era catchphrase  “You’re fired.”But that support began to erode in February  after the department’s inspector general released a blistering report that found “serious derelictions” related to a business trip taken by the secretary to Britain and Denmark last year. It concluded that the secretary had spent much of the trip sightseeing and improperly accepted Wimbledon tickets as a gift.The report provided ammunition for Mr. Shulkin’s critics within the department  who had increasingly broken with the secretary over how to approach one of the White House’s top policy priorities: the expansion of government-subsidized private health care for veterans. A handful of officials — including his two top communications deputies — worked behind the scenes to try to use the document to build support for his ouster.Perhaps more consequentially for Mr. Shulkin  Mr. Trump’s advisers say White House officials began to believe that Mr. Shulkin misled them about what would be in the report  which ushered in a new round of negative news media reports on the president’s cabinet. He made matters worse  they said  when he botched attempts to clean up the story and went public with fears about appointees “trying to undermine the department from within.”What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As stories about potential replacements began to circulate in mid-March  Mr. Trump summoned Mr. Shulkin to the Oval Office for what one person briefed on the discussion described as a tense meeting. An aide to Mr. Shulkin disputed that characterization.Mr. Shulkin has played down speculation about his departure as he has testified about the department’s budget request for the coming fiscal year and met privately with lawmakers to discuss pending legislation to remake the department’s approach to private care. He was scheduled to host a regular meeting on Thursday with leaders of the nation’s largest veterans groups.But he has proceeded with a curtailed public profile. The secretary was not on hand for a veterans event at the White House on Friday  for instance  and he is now hurried in and out of events by a security detail without taking questions from the press. Those who have spoken with the secretary said he had made it clear that he wanted to continue in the department’s top job  but was increasingly isolated.AdvertisementAshleigh F. Barry  a spokeswoman for the secretary  said on Tuesday only that Mr. Shulkin was focused on the work of the department.The speculation and mixed messages coming out of the White House have flummoxed key lawmakers in both parties  who continue to support the secretary  as well as many of the major veterans groups  which are congressionally chartered and largely apolitical. Organizations such as the Veterans of Foreign Wars and American Legion hold considerable sway over veterans policy in Washington  and they solidly back Mr. Shulkin.Though the groups were generally displeased with the findings turned up by the inspector general  they see the secretary as a pragmatic and effective leader who understands the challenges facing the department’s sprawling health care system and has taken concrete steps to address them.“We are disappointed about all this speculation that is happening because we feel that the secretary has done a good job of leading the V.A. in a positive direction ” said Garry Augustine  the executive director of Disabled American Veterans.The groups and lawmakers on Capitol Hill are closely watching for candidates to replace Mr. Shulkin  many of them fearful that the White House might try to use the nomination to advance a long-held conservative goal of shifting more of the department’s health care to private doctors. A nominee seen as too aggressive on privatization would likely face a difficult path to confirmation in the Senate  where Republicans have only the narrowest of majorities and several key Republicans have indicated an uneasiness with several of the names floated by people close to the White House.Those candidates include Jeff Miller  a former Florida congressman who led the House Veterans Affairs Committee and is now a lobbyist in Washington; Keith Kellogg  a retired three-star Army general who serves as the chief of staff of the National Security Council; and Leo Mackay Jr.  a former deputy secretary at the department who is now an executive at Lockheed Martin. Mr. Trump has also discussed the job with Energy Secretary Rick Perry.Another potential nominee  Pete Hegseth  is said to be uninterested in the nomination. Mr. Hegseth is a weekend co-host of “Fox & Friends” who formerly ran Concerned Veterans for America  a conservative veterans advocacy group backed by the billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch. The group has led the push to let veterans use their government benefits at private doctors.In the meantime  Mr. Shulkin may not be the only department official on his way out. Several high-ranking officials opposed to the secretary have indicated that they  too  intend to leave. Darin Selnick  an influential conservative voice on veterans issues within the administration  departed a position on the White House’s Domestic Policy Council on Friday and has decided to leave the administration entirely. Others  including the department’s assistant secretaries for communications and legislative affairs and its press secretary  have indicated to allies that they are searching for jobs elsewhere in the administration.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Awkward Silence on V.A. Chief From Man With Catchphrase of ‘You’re Fired’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MARK MAZZETTIMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — A top Trump campaign official had repeated communications during the final weeks of the 2016 presidential race with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence  according to a document released on Tuesday by the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the election.The campaign official  Rick Gates  had frequent phone calls in September and October 2016 with a person the F.B.I. believes had active links to Russian spy services at the time  the document said. Mr. Gates also told an associate the person “was a former Russian Intelligence Officer with the G.R.U. ” the Russian military intelligence agency.The special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  is investigating numerous contacts between President Trump’s advisers and Russia-linked individuals and entities leading up to and after the November 2016 election. The document  filed in Mr. Mueller’s name  stated that the communications between Mr. Gates and the individual were “pertinent to the investigation.”The individual is identified only as “Person A ” and the document describes him as someone who worked for Mr. Gates and Paul Manafort  Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman  as part of their earlier representation of Russia-aligned parties and politicians in Ukraine  including the former president of Ukraine. A person with knowledge of the matter identified Person A as Konstantin V. Kilimnik  who for years was Mr. Manafort’s right-hand man in Ukraine.Mr. Manafort has told associates that he does not believe that Mr. Kilimnik has ties to Russian intelligence  but the document released on Tuesday shows that Mr. Gates told others of his history in the intelligence services. That history was widely discussed for years among people who worked with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates in Ukraine.AdvertisementAt the time of the calls  Mr. Gates was the Trump campaign’s liaison to the Republican National Committee and  before that  he was the campaign’s deputy chairman. Mr. Manafort served as the campaign chairman until August 2016  when he resigned amid the growing controversy about his work in Ukraine.AdvertisementBoth Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were indicted last year for money laundering and other financial crimes committed while  the charges said  they tried to hide the money they received for their Ukraine work. Last month  Mr. Gates pleaded guilty to financial fraud and lying to investigators and has agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s investigation.Mr. Manafort has vowed to fight the charges. In February 2017  he told The New York Times he had “never knowingly spoken to Russian intelligence officers  and I have never been involved with anything to do with the Russian government of the Putin administration or any other issues under investigation today.”What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But  he added  “It’s not like these people wear badges that say  ‘I’m a Russian intelligence officer.’ ”Mr. Kilimnik was born in Ukraine when it was still part of the Soviet Union  and he served in the Russian Army as a linguist. Last year  as scrutiny mounted of his work with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates in Ukraine  he steadfastly denied any association with Russian intelligence. An investigation by Ukrainian prosecutors into Mr. Kilimnik’s possible links to Russian spy agencies was closed late last year without charges.Mr. Kilimnik has maintained residences in Moscow and Kiev  the capital of Ukraine  and has traveled regularly between them during years of working for Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates on behalf of various Russia-aligned oligarchs and political parties.The new document is a sentencing memorandum for Alex van der Zwaan  a lawyer who pleaded guilty in February to lying to federal investigators about his conversations with Mr. Gates in 2016 about work the two men did in Ukraine.Mr. van der Zwaan was an attorney at a firm that worked with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates to prepare a report used to defend Viktor F. Yanukovych  the former Ukrainian president  from international criticism over the prosecution and incarceration of one of his political rivals.AdvertisementMr. van der Zwaan “worked closely” on the report with Mr. Gates and Person A  according to a court filing submitted Tuesday night by Mr. van der Zwaan’s lawyers asking the judge for leniency in sentencing.Mr. van der Zwaan originally told Mr. Mueller’s investigators that he had not spoken to Mr. Gates since August 2016  but subsequently admitted he had lied after prosecutors confronted him with evidence of conversations.The sentencing document describes an observation by one unidentified witness in the investigation who said Mr. van der Zwaan had “gone native.”“That is  he had grown too close to Manafort  Gates  and Person A ” the document stated.According to the filing by his lawyers  Mr. van der Zwaan “had explored opportunities to leave Skadden to work directly for Gates and Manafort” in 2012 and 2013.Kenneth P. Vogel and Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Campaign Aide to Trump Tied to a Russian Official.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy NICHOLAS FANDOS and KATIE BENNERMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — The Justice Department’s inspector general  facing increasing political pressure from Republicans in Congress and Attorney General Jeff Sessions  said on Wednesday that his office would investigate the surveillance of a former Trump campaign official.The announcement came amid a stream of attacks in recent months from the White House and Republican lawmakers seeking to undermine the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election.The inspector general  Michael E. Horowitz  said he would examine whether law enforcement officials complied with the law and departmental policies in seeking permission from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to wiretap the former campaign adviser  Carter Page. Law enforcement officials had long had concerns that Mr. Page  a former investment banker based in Moscow  was acting as a Russian agent.Republicans have seized on details about the court-ordered surveillance of Mr. Page as evidence that the Justice Department abused its authority in the Russia investigation. Mr. Horowitz did not name Mr. Page in his announcement.AdvertisementMr. Horowitz said he would also review what the Justice Department and the F.B.I. knew at the time about a former British spy and longtime F.B.I. source  Christopher Steele  who provided information about Mr. Page that was included in the surveillance application.AdvertisementRepublicans on Capitol Hill welcomed the decision but acknowledged that it fell short of demands by three Republican committee chairmen that the Justice Department appoint a second special counsel to investigate the accusations of surveillance abuses.“This is not a substitute for a special counsel to investigate this and other matters ” said Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia  the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee  adding that the inspector general’s office “does not have authority to compel witness interviews  including from past employees  so its investigation will be limited in scope in comparison to a special counsel investigation.”Democrats feared that the investigation would further politicize a Justice Department that seems intent on appeasing President Trump. But they said they were confident that the review would confirm that the department and the F.B.I. had acted properly.“Any objective review of these claims should tell us what we already know — that the F.B.I. was right  that there was sufficient evidence to continue investigating certain Trump campaign officials for their connections to the Russian government  and that the Republicans are desperate to distract from that investigation ” said Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York  the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.Mr. Horowitz’s office is in the final stages of another high-profile investigation studying several contentious decisions made at the F.B.I. and Justice Department during the 2016 presidential campaign. Findings from one piece of that investigation prompted the firing this month of the former F.B.I. deputy director  Andrew G. McCabe. Mr. Horowitz is expected to release a broader report on his entire review in the coming weeks.The decision punctuated a year of attacks by Mr. Trump on the Justice Department and the special counsel investigation. Mr. McCabe  who as a former top F.B.I. official is a potential witness in the inquiry  insisted he was fired in an effort to discredit any testimony he might give.The debate over the surveillance of Mr. Page exploded into public view in January when Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee revealed that they had assembled a classified memo accusing law enforcement leaders of abusing their power to spy on Mr. Page.AdvertisementThe document’s chief claim was that the officials repeatedly used unsubstantiated Democratic-funded opposition research from Mr. Steele to obtain the surveillance warrant without adequately explaining to the judge the source of the information.Mr. Trump declassified the memo over the objections of the F.B.I.  which said it had “grave concerns” over its accuracy  a rare public break from the White House. Once it was released  Mr. Trump enthusiastically trumpeted it as evidence that the Russia investigation had been concocted to smear him politically.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Democrats on the committee countered with a memo of their own — one the president declined to declassify — offering a point-by-point refutation of the Republican document and blasting it as an intentionally misleading attempt to undermine the Russia investigation. They said law enforcement officials acted properly in seeking permission to spy on Mr. Page.Former career prosecutors said that the accusations of surveillance abuse had eroded trust in the Justice Department.“This is a continuation of a coordinated effort to discredit the special counsel’s work through political attacks on career public servants in the F.B.I. ” said Christopher Hunter  a former F.B.I. agent and federal prosecutor who left the Justice Department last year. “Sow disinformation  discredit the F.B.I. and the Justice Department in the minds of our own American citizens  all to undermine the special counsel and create an environment of confusion and doubt about the legitimacy of the special counsel’s work — that’s what Russian intelligence would do to destabilize our society  yet that’s what’s being done by our own government officials and their collaborators.”Mr. Sessions has tried to strike a balance between appeasing Mr. Trump and other conservatives assailing the Justice Department without alienating the 113 000 or so people who work under him. After the Republican congressional memo was released  he said that “no department is perfect” and that the Justice Department would address lawmakers’ concerns.But House Republicans grew frustrated with how the department was handling their concerns over a variety of issues including the surveillance of Mr. Page  the firing of Mr. McCabe and the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state.In a letter last week to the deputy attorney general  Mr. Goodlatte said that the department was moving too slowly and he issued a subpoena last week demanding that officials turn over documents related to those issues.The Justice Department said in a letter sent Tuesday to Mr. Goodlatte that it would work “to enhance the rate of productions ” and that it would schedule a meeting with the committee and the F.B.I. to discuss how the department would further respond to the request.AdvertisementChristopher A. Wray  the director of the F.B.I.  said in a news release that he had doubled the number of employees assigned to expedite the request for documents  with a total of 54 people working in shifts from 8 a.m. to midnight.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Inspector General Says He Will Investigate Surveillance of Trump Campaign Aide.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy EILEEN SULLIVANMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that the Second Amendment — the right to keep and bear arms — “will never be repealed ” responding to an opinion piece written by a retired Supreme Court justice who called for just that.
            THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!        Mr. Trump’s declaration in an early morning tweet came after days of silence on the subject  despite student-organized  marches around the country over the weekend calling for more gun control.On Tuesday  the retired Justice John Paul Stevens wrote an Op-Ed  in The New York Times calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment.“Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday ” Mr. Stevens wrote. “These demonstrations demand our respect. They reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society.”AdvertisementRepealing the Second Amendment would have to be approved by Congress  and there are no signs that such a move is underway.Advertisement“It is unequivocally not the Democratic caucus’ position to repeal the Second Amendment ” Senator Chuck Schumer  the top Democrat in the Senate  said in a statement to The New York Times on Wednesday. “The president has to tweet this because he and the Republicans are reeling.”Mr. Schumer  of New York  said the student marches are having an impact on the traditional argument about gun safety. The choice  he said  is not between gun rights and no gun rights.“Reasonable proposals that adhere to the Second Amendment but improve gun safety such as universal background checks  protective orders and a debate on the assault weapons ban are the way of the future ” Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Stevens retired from the Supreme Court in 2010. He wrote a major dissent about the Second Amendment in one of the court’s hardest-fought decisions. Mr. Stevens argued that the amendment does not protect an individual’s right to own firearms.“That decision — which I remain convinced was wrong and certainly was debatable — has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power ” Mr. Stevens wrote on Tuesday  referring to the National Rifle Association  the powerful gun lobbying group. “Overturning that decision via a constitutional amendment to get rid of the Second Amendment would be simple and would do more to weaken the N.R.A.’s ability to stymie legislative debate and block constructive gun control legislation than any other available option.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sarah Huckabee Sanders  the White House press secretary  indicated the administration was not considering a repeal of the Second Amendment.“The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment ” Ms. Sanders said on Tuesday in response to a question about Mr. Stevens’s Op-Ed. “We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals  not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights.”In his tweet  Mr. Trump also said that Democrats support repealing the Second Amendment  but that has not been the case in Congress  which is only considering modest policy changes on guns. In the 1990s  a Democratic congressman from New York introduced legislation for a repeal  but it did not get any traction. Mr. Trump’s opponent in the 2016 election  Hillary Clinton  did not campaign to repeal the Second Amendment.Advertisement“We can uphold Second Amendment rights while preventing senseless gun violence ” Mrs. Clinton tweeted in May 2016.Mr. Trump had the support of the N.R.A. early in his campaign for president and has said he is “the biggest fan of the Second Amendment.” After the deadly mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland  Fla.  last month  Mr. Trump proposed stricter controls on access to guns  particularly raising the age to purchase an assault weapon to 21 from 18. After a meeting with the N.R.A.  Mr. Trump no longer advocated for an age increase.Instead  the White House — with the support of the N.R.A. — says appropriately trained teachers should be armed to respond to future mass shootings.“Gun free zones are proven targets of killers ” Mr. Trump tweeted on March 1.
            Many ideas  some good & some not so good  emerged from our bipartisan meeting on school safety yesterday at the White House. Background Checks a big part of conversation. Gun free zones are proven targets of killers. After many years  a Bill should emerge. Respect 2nd Amendment!        Arming teachers has been widely criticized  recently by people who gathered for marches for more gun control.At a March for Our Lives demonstration in Anchorage  Alaska  on Saturday  Melanie Anderson  a 44-year-old middle schoolteacher  held up a sign that said “teacher  not sharp shooter.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Kirsten HanSINGAPORE — Days before winning the election in 2016  Donald Trump stood on a stage and directed an accusation at a tiny country halfway across the world: Singapore  he said  was stealing American jobs.Singapore is now on the tip of Mr. Trump’s tongue again — but this time  he’s expressing admiration for its death penalty for drug trafficking. He has reportedly invited government representatives to brief the White House on their approach to drug trafficking  including their use of capital punishment. Mr. Trump seems to believe he can learn a thing or two from Singapore.This is convenient for the Singapore government  which has been using the global opioid crisis as an argument for the retention of capital punishment. While the American media reported Mr. Trump’s praise for Singapore’s “zero tolerance” stance  the country hanged a 39-year-old Ghanaian named Billy Agbozo on March 9  and a 56-year-old Singaporean  Hishamrudin bin Mohd  on March 16. Both had been convicted of drug trafficking. These are the first two executions of 2018  as far as we know; information about imminent executions is not made available  and the prison service announces the number of hangings only in its annual report.But the borrowing of ideas hasn’t been a one-way street: the government here has taken a page out of Mr. Trump’s book. The new Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods is holding public hearings to explore measures for tackling “fake news.” The committee is meant to examine a range of options  but there are strong hints that new restrictions on the media are on the way  not least because the law minister  who is also a member of the committee  has already said that legislation is a “no-brainer.”Mr. Trump constantly proclaims that his “America First” policy will prevent the United States from being taken for a ride by other countries  while Singapore denounces foreign interference in its domestic politics. Yet when the occasion suits  both are more than happy to borrow ideas from elsewhere to control their populations. Such opportunism is the hallmark of authoritarians constantly on the lookout for ways to consolidate or expand their power.Both governments claim they’re solving urgent problems: to get the opioid crisis in the United States under control  to pre-empt disinformation campaigns that might threaten Singapore’s stability. But neither proposed solution is likely to solve the problem  and might even make things worse.Researchers have pointed to a lack of reliable data on drug use in Singapore to back up the government’s claims about the death penalty’s deterrent effect. The numbers offered by the state cannot be independently verified or may not present the whole picture. For instance  Ashok Kumar Mirpuri  Singapore’s ambassador to the United States   declared in a letter to the editor published in The Washington Post this month that Singapore had halved the number of drug abusers arrested between the 1990s and 2016 — a state of affairs supposedly brought about by the country’s willingness to impose death sentences.Yet the government’s own data shows that the number of drug abusers in Singapore increased from 2003 to 2017. The rate of drug use in any society is a complex issue with many variables; without more robust data and independent research  claims of the death penalty’s effectiveness in Singapore are unverifiable.The Singapore government has pointed to the United States  among others  as a target of disinformation campaigns  arguing that measures have to be taken to pre-empt attempts that exploit social fault lines to sow divisions within society. But Singapore already has laws that include the criminalizing of the transmission of messages known to be false  speech with the tendency to “promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population ” even the uttering of words with the “deliberate intention of wounding” religious or racial feelings  on top of other regulations that give the government control over the mainstream media and the power to take down content.The government hasn’t been afraid of using these powers  either: Web publishers have been jailed for sedition and their websites ordered to be shut down  while bloggers have been sued for defamation or found to be in contempt of court. One teenage blogger  Amos Yee  was granted asylum in the United States after an American immigration panel found that his two prosecutions for wounding religious feelings in Singapore amounted to political persecution.Although government ministers claim that measures against “fake news” will not affect free speech  Singaporean activists have seen how broadly worded legislation can  and has  been used to curb dissent. As I write this  an activist is facing a charge of vandalism (among others) simply for pasting two sheets of paper on a subway car during a silent protest. Apart from vague reassurances  there is no guarantee that any new law will not be used to restrict speech and clamp down on civil society.Both Mr. Trump and the Singapore government have little time for human rights  civil liberties or even openness and accountability when there’s something they want to achieve. For Mr. Trump  the death penalty fits his favored straight-talking  tough-guy image. For Singapore  spinning “fake news” into a national security issue is a great opportunity to expand state control of the online space  where political discourse is freer than anywhere else in the country.It’s precisely this opportunism that requires civil society groups around the world to look outward even as governments look in. We need to build links so we learn from one another’s experiences. As politicians seize chances to grab power  undermine human rights and erode democratic processes  problems that exist elsewhere can very quickly become our problem too.Kirsten Han is a journalist and advocate for the abolition of capital punishment in Singapore.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ALAN RAPPEPORTMARCH 27  2018
Update: The United States and South Korea formally announced the trade agreement in a joint statement on Wednesday  and said that it “represents important progress in improving U.S.-Korea trade and economic relations.”WASHINGTON — President Trump scored his first significant trade deal this week  securing a pact with South Korea that represents the type of one-on-one agreement that Mr. Trump says makes the best sense for American companies and workers.The deal  which is expected to be formally announced on Wednesday  opens the South’s market to American autos by lifting existing limits on manufacturers like Ford Motor and General Motors  extends tariffs for South Korean truck exports and restricts  by nearly a third  the amount of steel that the South can export to the United States. Mr. Trump used his threat of stiff steel and aluminum tariffs as a cudgel to extract the concessions he wanted  helping produce an agreement that had stalled amid disagreements this year.But winning the deal may have had more to do with the geopolitical realities confronting the United States and South Korea as America embarks on tricky nuclear discussions with North Korea. The United States cannot afford a protracted trade standoff at a moment when it needs the South as an ally.AdvertisementThe trade deal came as the Chinese state news media reported that North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  made an unannounced visit to Beijing to meet with President Xi Jinping weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders.AdvertisementThe political success of the trade agreement — and its ability to be replicated in other negotiations — is not guaranteed. Many countries have reacted coolly to Washington’s pugilistic approach to trade  viewing the president’s preference to punch first and negotiate later as counter to global interests.President Emmanuel Macron of France lashed out at the approach on Tuesday  saying he was frustrated by the seemingly coercive negotiation tactics coming from Washington.“We talk about everything  in principle  with a friendly country that respects the rules of the W.T.O. ” Mr. Macron said. “We talk about nothing  in principle  when it is with a gun to our head.”The implications in the United States will depend on how well Mr. Trump and his allies are able to sell the deal’s direct benefits to voters in midterm elections in the fall. They did not succeed in doing so in a recent special election in Pennsylvania  where a Democrat won in a district that should have been especially receptive to Mr. Trump’s argument about trade and tariffs.Stephen K. Bannon  Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist  said the president’s political team “must get on the ground and make sure working people understand the direct economic benefits that come from these measures — get it from being academic to simple.”The deal with South Korea  he said  “is a big victory resulting from the president’s smart tariff policies.”The state news media in China and North Korea confirmed that Kim Jong-un  the North Korean leader  was in the mysterious train that pulled into Beijing on Monday. It was his first official visit abroad since he took office.The agreement is also a victory for a president whose most ardent campaign supporters were animated in part by a promise that Mr. Trump would fight for them against an international free-trade establishment that they believe had robbed them of jobs and depressed their wages.AdvertisementAs a candidate  Mr. Trump had repeatedly threatened to withdraw from trade deals he said were unfair to the United States and its workers — or even rip them up. Even as recently as last September  associates of the president made it clear that he was willing to withdraw from trade negotiations with South Korea if he thought the result would be unfair.Mr. Trump has also made clear his disdain for the multicountry trade agreements that the United States has long championed. One of his first moves as president was to pull out of what was then the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership  an agreement that President Barack Obama had helped solidify.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Tuesday  supporters of Mr. Trump’s protectionist approach to trade cheered the new pact as a victory for American workers and the dawn of a new era in globalization.“The agreement with South Korea to better level the playing field on steel and autos is an encouraging sign that the administration’s trade strategy is achieving results ” said Scott N. Paul  the president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “We believe the deal’s steel provision will be as effective as a tariff in achieving the goals of strengthening our domestic industry and ensuring it can supply America’s security needs.”Through the agreement  South Korea — the third-biggest exporter of steel to the United States in 2016 — is permanently exempt from the White House’s global tariffs of 25 percent on steel. In return  South Korea agreed to adhere to a quota of 2.68 million tons of steel exports to the United States a year  which it said was roughly equivalent to 70 percent of its annual average sent to the United States from 2015 to 2017.The deal also doubles the number of vehicles the United States can export to South Korea without meeting local safety requirements to 50 000 per manufacturer. However  trade experts said that American companies had not come close to meeting their existing quota last year  and that American carmakers had not done enough to tailor their products for South Korean consumers  who prefer smaller vehicles. The revised agreement does ease environmental regulations that American carmakers face when selling vehicles in South Korea and makes American standards for auto parts compliant with South Korean regulations.Importantly for the Trump administration  the agreement extends tariffs on imported South Korean trucks by 20 years to 2041. Those tariffs were set to phase out in 2021  which officials said would have harmed American truck makers.The deal will also establish a side agreement between the United States and South Korea that is intended to deter “competitive devaluation” of both countries’ currencies — which can artificially lower the cost of imports bought by consumers — and to create more transparency on issues of monetary policy. Administration officials suggested that this new type of arrangement was likely to be replicated in other trade deals  though they acknowledged that it was not enforceable.Senior White House officials trumpeted the addition of the currency provision to the negotiations  which would seek to prevent South Korea from reducing the value of its currency to make its goods cheaper abroad and export more to the United States. In a report published in October  the Treasury Department declined to label South Korea a currency manipulator  but placed it on a “monitoring list” for its currency practices and large trade surplus with the United States.AdvertisementHowever  the effect of the currency agreement may be mostly symbolic  since it was signed in a side deal to the pact to avoid a lengthy legislative approval process. Unlike other provisions of the official agreement  the currency provision is not enforceable through panels that typically settle disputes  or through officially sanctioned retaliation  the usual method for policing trade deals.The Obama administration had fought for a similar currency provision to be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On automobiles  the biggest source of trade tensions between the countries  the negotiation delivered modest victories that were likely to be welcomed by American carmakers who have long sought to sell more cars in South Korea. It also smoothed customs and regulatory procedures that American businesses say have made it harder to sell goods in the country.Ana Swanson contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Backers See Trade Deal As a Validation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KEITH BRADSHERMARCH 28  2018
Trade pacts typically require years of detailed negotiations. The North American Free Trade Agreement needed two years. Creation of the World Trade Organization took eight.The Trump administration wants to remake global trade in a matter of months.To secure agreements quickly  the White House has taken a contentious approach to negotiations not seen in decades  threatening allies and adversaries alike with harsh sanctions like tariffs and quotas. Those tactics have returned a few early concessions from trading partners  including South Korea  whose revised trade agreement was formally announced by the United States on Wednesday.But it remains to be seen how much American workers would benefit from these deals and whether the global trading system can sustain the chaos.President Trump and his chief trade negotiator  Robert Lighthizer  have set a series of crucial deadlines that are rapidly approaching. Temporary exemptions on imports of steel and aluminum from Australia  Brazil  Canada  the European Union  Mexico and South Korea have been scheduled to expire on May 1  and the Trump administration has been using that deadline as a cudgel to extract concessions from those nations.AdvertisementMr. Trump is demanding that Canada and Mexico  which have been locked in tense  monthslong negotiations with the United States over Nafta  agree to a rewrite of the trade pact in a matter of weeks. He is seeking Europe’s support by then in a trade showdown with China  and has publicly questioned whether the United States will continue to accept a deal made long ago that allows the European Union to charge a tariff on imported cars that is four times as high as the United States’ tariff.AdvertisementIn what might be the most difficult trade fight ahead  the Trump administration is taking steps to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion a year worth of goods from China as soon as late April.The banana wars were spats that escalated  tariff by tariff  into a decades-long dispute between the United States and the European Union.Behind the rapid pace is a political promise Mr. Trump made both as a candidate and as president that he would rip up global trade deals that did not work for the United States and rewrite them to favor domestic companies and workers. With the 2018 midterm elections fast approaching and many Republicans in vulnerable positions  Mr. Trump is trying to win agreements that will appeal to his base and help keep Republican control of Congress.If Mr. Trump’s push works  it could hasten the biggest rewrite of trade rules around the world since 118 nations agreed in Geneva in 1993 to create the World Trade Organization.But the rush carries significant risks. Hasty deals could do little to solve major  long-running problems for the United States  like China’s financial support for its homegrown companies. New tariffs could also prompt the United States’ biggest trading partners to push back and ignite a trade war or a serious geopolitical confrontation. And it could simply prompt some nations to pull back from the United States  rather than accede to demands that may be unpalatable back home.“You get this thing rolling and it gets hard to stop ” said Nelson G. Dong  an international investment and technology lawyer in the Seattle office of Dorsey & Whitney  a law firm. “Each side gets its manhood challenged.”There are legal risks as well. Trade pacts are usually inspected minutely by lawyers on both sides before they are signed. The United States is trying to conclude a rapid-fire series of them at a moment when the office of the United States trade representative is short-staffed for budgetary reasons. Many governments plan to challenge Mr. Trump’s trade actions at the World Trade Organization including Canada  which has already filed a sweeping trade case.For now  Mr. Trump’s highly ambitious agenda lacks even a clear schedule for trade ministers to meet and sort out the details. The approach has irritated trade ministers in Canada  China  the European Union and Mexico  who have made clear that they would prefer the United States address its chronic trade deficits in a quieter and more collegial manner.AdvertisementIn the case of South Korea  the high-pressure tactic returned results — though it is not yet clear how much Seoul’s concessions will help American workers.Under the deal announced on Wednesday  South Korea will reduce its steel exports to the United States by nearly one-third to avoid getting hit with new American steel tariffs. South Korea also agreed to double  to 50 000  the number of American cars that it will allow to be imported each year into the country without meeting South Korea’s unique safety standards  which have been criticized for decades by American and European officials as a trade barrier.South Korean demand for American cars appears to be growing  but the new rules may not provide an immediate increase for Detroit. According to the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association  the number of cars imported from the United States remains below the 25 000 cap  reaching 20 019 last year.Still  the South Korea examples offers a look at what Mr. Trump may be seeking by pressuring trading partners for quick deals. Mr. Trump strongly hinted last week that his goal in confronting trading partners was a negotiated settlement  as opposed collecting billions of dollars from new tariffs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I believe that  in many cases — maybe all cases — we’ll end up negotiating a deal ” he said.It is not clear how well that approach will work with China  a much bigger and more pugnacious trading partner. Chinese officials have repeatedly said that they object to threats but do see room to reduce the country’s trade barriers. Premier Li Keqiang said in a speech this month that China was ready to lower tariffs on imported cars and some other items.“We will make more efforts on market opening  promote industrial updating and the development of balanced trade  and provide more choices for consumers ” he said.Comments like that have some analysts predicting that a deal will be reached. “The most likely outcome is that China will concede ” said Larry Hu  an economist in the Hong Kong office of Macquarie Securities.But significant risks remain of a possible trade war by the end of next month.“Nafta could get some result by that date and the European Union might have a deal by then  but in the case of China  this will be more difficult ” said He Weiwen  a former Chinese Commerce Ministry official and longtime trade expert. “The Chinese are very mad.”AdvertisementAlready some in the Trump administration are spoiling for a fight over the W.T.O.  which arbitrates international trade disputes.Mr. Lighthizer and many other Democratic and Republican trade experts have repeatedly complained that the W.T.O.’s process for reviewing and solving trade disputes has put the United States and Western countries at a disadvantage.Critics in the United States complain that the W.T.O. allows China to keep steep trade barriers: triple the average tariffs of the United States and double the average tariffs of the European Union. China’s retort is that the West agreed to the tariffs in the 1990s  and that a deal is a deal  not to be changed unless the West offers further concessions.Pascal Lamy  the former director general of the W.T.O.  said that what the United States accomplishes could depend to a considerable extent on whether it seeks a broad opening up of international trade  including a requirement that China remove many trade barriers  or whether the United States ends up protecting its own market.“If the United States carpet bombing on trade is about opening a negotiation  which is one of the interpretations  then I think there is ample room to improve the rules of the W.T.O. ” he said.But he added that if American officials “are after blowing up the multilateral system  then it is a very serious issue.”Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers  Sui-Lee Wee  Chris Buckley and Ana Swanson.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Armed With Tariffs  Trump Rushes to Remake Trade Deals That Took Years to Write.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  12:42 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that the Second Amendment "WILL NEVER BE REPEALED" and called on voters to elect more Republicans in this fall's congressional elections because the GOP "must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court."Trump's statements came a day after retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in an essay in The New York Times that repealing the amendment would make it easier for Congress to enact gun control legislation.Last month's shootings that killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland  Florida  have galvanized young people  liberals and Democrats for a renewed push to curb firearms. That has included demonstrations that have drawn hundreds of thousands of marchers in cities across the country."THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED!" Trump tweeted early Wednesday. "As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"AdvertisementAs with many issues  Trump's stated position on guns has been inconsistent. In a televised meeting after the Parkland massacre with shooting survivors  lawmakers and others  he suggested letting authorities confiscate guns from people considered dangerous even without court permission and expanding required background checks to also cover private gun sales. He's since abandoned those views.AdvertisementThere is no current  major push to repeal the Second Amendment. Any effort to do so would be unlikely to succeed in today's divisive political climate. Under the most common way to amend the Constitution  the House and Senate would both need to approve the proposal by two-thirds majorities. It would then need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Political parties do not technically "hold" the Supreme Court like they control Congress.Justices are nominated by presidents and must be confirmed by the Senate. It is true justices often reflect the political views of presidents who select them  but that is not always the case.Of the current nine justices  the four considered to comprise the court's conservative wing were appointed by GOP presidents and the four more liberal judges were selected by Democratic presidents. The ninth  often considered the crucial swing vote  is Anthony Kennedy  who was nominated by Republican President Ronald Reagan.Trump would have an easier time filling the next Supreme Court vacancy if Republicans can expand their current 51-49 Senate majority in November's elections.The Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the Second Amendment lets people own guns for self-defense.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  10:42 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  One of President Donald Trump's attorneys floated the possibility of pardoning two of the president's former advisers caught up in the Russia probe in discussions with their lawyers last year  The New York Times reported Wednesday.The newspaper  citing three anonymous people with knowledge of the discussions  said then-Trump attorney  John Dowd  raised the idea with attorneys for former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.Dowd  who recently resigned from Trump's legal team  denied having the conversations in an interview with the Times  saying  "There were no discussions. Period." He did not respond to request for comment from The Associated Press.According to the Times  the discussion with Flynn's attorney  Robert Kelner  took place last summer  months before Flynn took a plea deal and began cooperating with special counsel Robert Mueller. The conversation with Reginald Brown  who represented Manafort at the time  took place ahead of Manafort's indictment last October on charges of acting as an unregistered foreign agent and conspiring to launder money.AdvertisementReached Wednesday  Brown and Kelner declined to comment. The report provoked strong denials from the White House and Trump's attorneys.AdvertisementIn a statement  attorney Ty Cobb  who represents the White House  said there have been no pardons discussed related to the Russia investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I have only been asked about pardons by the press and have routinely responded on the record that no pardons are under discussion or under consideration at the White House " he said.Trump personal attorney Jay Sekulow also said  "Never during the course of my representation of the president have I had any discussions of pardons of any individual involved in this inquiry."White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said she wasn't aware of any discussions in which Trump directed Dowd to broach the subject of pardoning people involved in the special counsel's investigation. But Sanders said she hadn't asked the president specifically.The AP earlier reported that Trump mused to aides last summer about pardons and asked for information about the extent of his constitutional powers according two individuals familiar with the discussions. The people spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversations were confidential.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Chad Day contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  4:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  A federal judge Wednesday allowed Maryland and the District of Columbia to proceed with their lawsuit accusing President Donald Trump of accepting unconstitutional gifts from foreign interests  but limited the case to the president's involvement with the Trump International Hotel in Washington.U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte's ruling dismissed other sections of the lawsuit that raised concerns about the impact of foreign gifts to the president from Trump Organization properties outside of Washington.Maryland and D.C. accuse the president of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution  which bans the president and other federal officials from accepting gifts from foreign governments as well as U.S. states. Specifically  they allege nearby businesses have been subjected to increased competition as a result of the foreign traffic to the Trump Hotel."Their allegation is bolstered by explicit statements from certain foreign government officials indicating that they are clearly choosing to stay at the president's hotel because  as one representative of a foreign government has stated  they want him to know 'I love your new hotel '" Messitte wrote in his 47-page ruling.AdvertisementBut the judge also warned the plaintiffs that their "claims sweep too broadly " saying "it is a considerable stretch  however  to find the requisite injury-in-fact" to Maryland and D.C. from Trump properties outside of Washington.AdvertisementDespite Messitte's limited ruling  a watchdog group that has joined the two jurisdictions in the lawsuit was quick to hail the judge's decision."This is a major step forward for the emoluments litigation " said Norman Eisen  a former chief ethics lawyer for the Obama administration and chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington  also called CREW. Eisen said the decision suggests that states and businesses near Trump enterprises in other parts of the country may also have legal standing to sue.Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said "we won the first round. It's a very clear decision that Donald Trump is not above the law and has to be held accountable to the emoluments clause."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine  tweeted: "We have standing to hold Pres. Trump accountable for violating the Constitution."It was not immediately clear whether the Trump administration would appeal the ruling.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to address the issue during an afternoon press briefing  saying "I can't comment on pending litigation."Kerri Kupec  a Justice Department spokeswoman  said "we believe this case should be dismissed  and we will continue to defend the president in court."Although the Trump Organization was not a party in the litigation  the company said it was pleased that the judge did not allow the lawsuit to target other Trump properties."The court's decision today does significantly narrow the scope of the case " said a company spokeswoman. The court has yet to rule on several additional arguments  which we believe should result in a complete dismissal."If the judge's ruling holds  it could allow Maryland and DC to press for documents showing how foreign government interests or U.S. states used the Trump hotel and how much money they spent there.AdvertisementLate last year  a judge in New York threw out a similar lawsuit filed by CREW  ruling that the emoluments clause is an issue that Congress should address first. A third federal lawsuit has been filed against Trump on the issue by nearly 200 Democratic members of Congress.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  4:03 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's family hotel business has lost a bid to regain control of the luxury hotel in Panama that ousted his brand  according to a new emergency arbitration ruling.The arbitrator ruled Tuesday that Trump's company should not have been evicted while a broader arbitration dispute was ongoing between the hotel owners and Trump. But with Trump outmaneuvered in Panama and the hotel in the owners' hands  the arbitrator declined to reinstate the Trump team. He also barred all parties from starting new legal fights over the matter."The facts on the ground now militate against forcibly undoing the steps that have been taken " arbitrator Joel Richler wrote. He said his decision might be different if Trump had sought an emergency arbitration decision before the hotel owners successfully petitioned the Panamanian courts for help.Alan Garten  the Trump Organization's general counsel  declined to comment on the ruling. But in past statements to The Associated Press  he has said that the Trump Organization expects the arbitration process will ultimately find that Trump Hotels' firing and subsequent removal from the property without an arbitrator's approval violated Trump's contract.AdvertisementTuesday's decision dashes the Trump Organization's hopes of promptly reversing its high-profile eviction from the property  a 70-story luxury high rise on Panama City's waterfront now named The Bahia Grand Panama. The owners of the property — which was run by Trump under a management agreement — sought to fire his company last October  citing damage to Trump's brand and mismanagement by hotel officials. But the Trump Organization disputed its termination as illegitimate and refused to hand over the property.AdvertisementThe fight — initially waged in confidential arbitration — burst into the public eye in February when Orestes Fintiklis  the hotel's majority owner  sought to fire Trump's hotel management and take control of the property on behalf of the owners' association. Trump's family company responded by beefing up its security team and blockading doors — sometimes by building walls in the administrative office's hallways. Rival teams of hotel security guards skirmished on the property  and police were repeatedly called in to keep the peace.The standoff ended March 5  when Panamanian judicial officials sided with Fintiklis and a justice of the peace backed by police officers ordered the Trump management team to vacate the property. A workman immediately scrubbed Trump's name from the hotel  using a crowbar to pry "TRUMP" off the hotel's signage amid a scrum of news cameras.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Richler's ruling stated that  under the contract between the hotel owners and the Trump Organization  the dispute over Trump's firing should have remained in arbitration and never have been brought to Panama's courts.Trump's lawyers made an argument  the arbitrator ruled  that the hotel owners breached Trump's hotel management contract by seeking outside help from local courts.But because the arbitator's finding applies only to his own decision and he chose not to turn over control of the hotel back to Trump  it is unclear whether his decision has any significance.The arbitrator ordered both sides to split the $40 000 cost of the emergency arbitration evenly and ordered both the hotel owners and Trump to refrain from bringing new challenges against each other until the arbitration is sorted out."The parties to the arbitration agreement are enjoined from making any emergency applications concerning the management of the hotel in any forum other than the ICC or the courts of New York " he wrote — jurisdictions in which the matter has already been contested  including the International Chamber of Commerce.The parties are still fighting over who broke the hotel management contract and who should pay whom. A $3 million arbitration claim filed by Trump's business against the hotel and a cumulative $25 million in claims against Trump in arbitration and Panamanian court remain outstanding.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 29  2018
RICHFIELD  Ohio — President Trump heralded a new trade agreement with South Korea at his first public appearance in nearly a week on Thursday  but then immediately suggested that he might delay finalizing it while negotiating with North Korea over its nuclear program.“I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea ” Mr. Trump said  immediately after celebrating the new agreement. “Does everybody understand that? You know why  right? You know why? Because it’s a very strong card.”He added  “We’ll probably hold that deal up for a little while  see how it all plays out.”It was unclear what leverage Mr. Trump believed he could gain in the North Korea talks by delaying the deal with the South. The move could be an attempt by Mr. Trump to prod President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to hold a firm line with North Korea when talks begin over its nuclear program. Raj Shah  a White House spokesman  said in a statement that South Korea and the United States had reached an agreement “in principle.”“The president  taking into account all relevant considerations — including negotiations with North Korea — will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States ” he said.AdvertisementBut Mr. Trump’s comments seemed to undercut a weeklong White House effort to promote the agreement. And they were in keeping with the at-times confusing tone of Mr. Trump’s speech at a muddy-floored training center for union workers here in this Cleveland suburb: His appearance was billed as an attempt to promote his infrastructure plan  but Mr. Trump addressed it only briefly near the end of his remarks  and said it was unlikely to pass soon.AdvertisementAfter a week marked by persistent scandals and high-profile staff departures  policy was not at the forefront of the president’s mind. Mr. Trump seemed intently focused on delivering his own progress report to supporters on a range of red-meat issues  including his zeal for improving border security  his promise to construct a border wall with Mexico  his administration’s efforts to roll back what he called “job killing” regulations and his thwarting of Democrats.“Really  I have gotten done much more than I promised ” Mr. Trump said. “We did a lot of things I didn’t even promise.”In the driving rain  Mr. Trump made his way to the training center  where he had been scheduled to sell an ambitious plan that would try to leverage $200 billion in federal spending to generate $1.5 trillion in total spending on projects such as tunnels  bridges and highways. White House officials had framed the event as a ramp-up  but this conflicted with the president’s decision to say he would push the plan to next year  declaring that he did not expect it to pass at least until after the November midterm elections.Also curiously  Mr. Trump spent little time on the trade deal struck with South Korea this week  which had been a win for his administration. That continued a relatively muted celebration: The announcement of that agreement’s details came not from Mr. Trump or his White House  but from South Korean officials; Trump administration officials unveiled the plan days later in a conference call with reporters.Instead  Mr. Trump disparaged a previous version of a South Korea trade agreement as a “horror show” and a “Hillary Clinton special.” He mused to the crowd that he might hold up finalizing the deal while he pursues planned talks with North Korea.“Certainly  the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit  would you say?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd. “We’ll see how it all turns out.”Mr. Trump seemed to veer off script in other areas as well. At one point  he suggested that he planned to pull American troops out of Syria  where they have aided a military campaign that has recaptured the vast majority of the territory once controlled by the Islamic State  or ISIS. “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS ” he said. “We’ll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crowd applauded  he added: “Very soon  very soon we’re coming out. We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”AdvertisementThe comment seemed in conflict with plans by his national security team to keep a small force in place. As recently as Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground” and had “drawn off slightly” to avoid accidental conflict with Russian troops  they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.Some foreign policy specialists said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Syria would leave a dangerous void. “If we’re pulling those troops out  we’re ceding the remnants of Syria to the Russians and the Iranians and the other actors  which actually I would argue would be a big victory for Russia ” said Jamie M. Fly  a Republican scholar at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.Mr. Trump eventually focused on infrastructure on Thursday  zeroing in on his plan to speed up permitting. But the subject and timing of the president’s focus on his plan  announced in February  are curious. Congressional Republicans have not shown much appetite for taking up the infrastructure package  and neither have Democrats  who prefer proposals with much more federal spending.Mr. Trump acknowledged some of that reality in his remarks.“I don’t think you’re going to get Democrat support very much ” he said. “You’re probably going to have to wait until after the election.”Administration officials have not mounted any sort of effort  in public or private  that matches the scale of the pressure campaign they employed before the passage of Mr. Trump’s signature tax cut package last year. Perhaps the most prominent advocate of the infrastructure proposal  Gary D. Cohn  recently left his post as director of the National Economic Council. His successor  Larry Kudlow  is less enthusiastic about increases in federal infrastructure spending.The administration envisions states  local governments and the private sector contributing the bulk of the funds  a recipe that experts doubt would result in anywhere close to the targeted level of investment.Richard Trumka  the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.  which has lobbied for a large infrastructure bill  said he was skeptical that the president’s visit would spur any action.“He and Congress didn’t blink whenever they shelled out a trillion and a half dollars in tax giveaways for the rich ” Mr. Trumka said  “but we haven’t seen a nickel yet for infrastructure. He can talk about it forever  but he’s got to do something.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the minority leader  echoed that sentiment on Thursday. “Democrats are eager to work with the administration on infrastructure ” he said  “but there’s been a lack of seriousness on this issue from the White House.”Katie Rogers reported from Richfield  and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Praise for Trade Deal  Then Trump Suggests That He Might Delay It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN and PATRICK HEALYMARCH 28  2018
President Trump made a personal phone call on Wednesday to a political supporter with a huge megaphone — Roseanne Barr.Mr. Trump called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the revival of her comedy  “Roseanne ” and to thank her for her support.The call was confirmed by Sarah Huckabee Sanders  the White House press secretary.The president  an obsessive about how TV shows perform  was enthralled by the “huge” ratings “Roseanne” had received  said a person familiar with the call. The show’s first episode  broadcast Tuesday evening on ABC  averaged 18.2 million viewers.“Roseanne ” featuring a working-class family of five and assorted relatives  returned to the air this week more than two decades after it ended its run. The lead actress’s character plays a backer of Mr. Trump. (Roseanne’s TV sister  Jackie Harris  by contrast  supports Hillary Clinton  though ultimately voted for Jill Stein.)What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Barr herself has been a vocal defender of Mr. Trump.In an interview with The New York Times published Tuesday  Ms. Barr said that she decided to turn her character  Roseanne Conner  into a Trump supporter because she felt it was an “accurate portrayal” of the political preferences of many working-class Americans.Advertisement“I just wanted to have that dialogue about families torn apart by the election and their political differences of opinion and how we handle it ” she said. “I thought that this was an important thing to say at this time.”AdvertisementMs. Barr defended the president at several points in the interview  objecting to a suggestion that he opposes many of the views that she and Roseanne Conner have espoused over the years  like support for abortion rights  same-sex marriage and organized labor.Mr. Trump used to back abortion rights before running for president as a Republican  but he has never supported same-sex marriage.“I think he voices them quite well ” she said of the stances that the president shares with her — and her character. She insisted that Mr. Trump favored same-sex marriage  even though he has never endorsed its legalization.“He has said it several times  you know  that he’s not homophobic at all ” she said.Ms. Barr did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Wednesday night.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Former Vice President Joe Biden regrets saying he'd "beat the hell" out of President Donald Trump if they were in high school for how he treats women.In a "Pod Save America" interview released Wednesday  the Democrat said "I shouldn't have said what I said."At a University of Miami rally against sexual assault last week  Biden cited lewd comments that Republican candidate Trump made in a 2005 "Access Hollywood" tape about grabbing women without their permission.The 75-year-old made similar comments in the closing days of the 2016 campaign.Trump tweeted: "Crazy Joe Biden is trying to act like a tough guy."Biden said he should not have brought it up again. He said "I don't want to get down in the mosh pit with this guy."AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  5:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Pentagon said Thursday that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has talked with President Donald Trump about the possibility that the Pentagon could fund the long-promised border wall with Mexico.Chief Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said the two "talked about the proposal  potentially." But she said she didn't know when the conversation occurred.White said that securing the nation is of paramount importance to Mattis.When asked if paying $25 billion for the wall might hurt Mattis' key priority of rebuilding the military  White said the two agree that the U.S. military must stay the most lethal in the world.Trump recently tweeted that building "a great Border Wall" is "all about National Defense" and he called to "Build WALL through M!" — the military.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear  Nick Wingfield and Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — President Trump escalated his attack on Amazon on Thursday  saying in an early-morning tweet that the online retail behemoth does not pay enough taxes — and strongly suggesting that he may use the power of his office to rein in the nation’s largest e-commerce business.Mr. Trump accused Amazon  one of the country’s most recognizable and successful brands  of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and said the company was using the United States Postal Service as its “Delivery Boy.”The president has lashed out publicly against the giant company and its chief executive  Jeff Bezos  on Twitter more than a dozen times since 2015. And privately  people close to him said  Mr. Trump repeatedly brings up his disdain for the company  often set off by his anger at negative stories in The Washington Post  which is owned by Mr. Bezos.By focusing on the threat to small businesses  Mr. Trump has touched on the unease of Amazon’s disruptive force. The company has changed industries as varied as publishing  groceries and health care. That has helped the company grow to be worth more than $700 billion  but it has also made it a convenient target.The president has little clear authority to take action against the company. Some Amazon critics have suggested antitrust actions against the company  but the moves would need to come from the independent Federal Trade Commission or the Justice Department  where officials have promised to keep politics out of its corporate competition cases.Lindsay Walters  a White House spokeswoman  told reporters on Thursday that “the president has expressed his concerns with Amazon. We have no actions at this time.”Still  Mr. Trump’s willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.His comments have already spooked investors  sending Amazon stocks tumbling Wednesday after an article on the website Axios about his anger toward the company. The stock fell further after his tweet on Thursday  though prices rebounded later.The tech industry is increasingly on the defensive. Facebook is under attack in Washington for its handling of personal data and the social network’s role in the 2016 election. And the recent death of a pedestrian by a self-driving car has renewed criticism of Uber.“The general principle that I know deeply concerns the president is that we need to live in a world where the government sets a level playing field between internet vendors and mom and pop stores ” Kevin Hassett  the chair of the president’s council on economic advisers  said Thursday on Fox Business.Drew Herdener  an Amazon spokesman  declined to comment.Several current and former officials said that Mr. Trump regularly conflates Amazon with The Post. Mr. Bezos owns the paper privately  separate from his role at Amazon.Brad Parscale  the president’s 2020 campaign manager  on Thursday channeled Mr. Trump’s anger about The Post in a tweet of his own  saying: “Do not forget to mention that @amazon has probably 10x the data on every American that @facebook does. All that data and own a political newspaper  The @washingtonpost. Hmm…”And far-right  conspiracy-fanning websites — some of which Mr. Trump is known to read — have for months stoked the idea that The Post is in cahoots with the C.I.A. because the agency contracts with Amazon to provide cloud-based data storage. Last November  a headline at one of those sites  Infowars  said: “BEZOS & DEEP STATE UNITE: AMAZON LAUNCHES CLOUD SERVICE FOR CIA.”The Post declined to comment.One person close to Mr. Trump  who asked for anonymity to discuss private discussions in the Oval Office  said that the president mused about the issue of Amazon and taxes at least a half-dozen times in the last six months. The president has repeatedly claimed that Amazon costs the Postal Service money even though officials have explained to him that is not the case. Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission  which oversees the service  has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable.People close to Mr. Trump say the president is convinced that Amazon unfairly benefits from tax laws. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one  but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax  a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition  some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.In April  the Supreme Court will hear arguments in an case on whether to allow states to impose sales taxes on all internet sales. Many observers believe the justices are poised to reverse its 1992 ruling that exempted online retailers with no physical presence in a state.Mr. Trump hears the sales tax complaints frequently during visits with his wealthy friends at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida  and in meetings at the White House  several aides and associates said. One person familiar with his thinking said that the president believes many of his core supporters are hurt when Amazon disrupts the local businesses where they live.The president’s critique is shared by some of his usual adversaries in the Democratic Party. Like many of Mr. Trump’s wealthy Republican friends  Representative Keith Ellison  Democrat of Minnesota  has been critical of Amazon’s growing power in the marketplace.“The Trump administration should rein in giants like Amazon because they have an unfair stranglehold on the competition  not because the president has a personal feud with a company’s C.E.O. ” Mr. Ellison said in a statement on Thursday.There was also some irony in the criticism coming from Mr. Trump  who has boasted about his dexterity in avoiding paying taxes. “This is the guy who said that not paying taxes ‘makes me smart ’” said Matt Gardner  senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research organization.How the president could slow Amazon  beyond take to Twitter or complain about the company in speeches  is unclear.If Mr. Trump were to pressure the Justice Department to pursue antitrust enforcement action against Amazon  it would be a sharp break from tradition  experts say  because the White House has kept a far distance from those cases for decades.“It would be a gross violation and abuse of our due process ” said Diana Moss  president of the American Antitrust Institute.But the president has repeatedly crossed lines that his predecessors have observed. In the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election  he has pressured Justice Department officials to investigate his Democratic rivals and to abandon the investigation of himself and his associates.AT&T and Time Warner have suggested Mr. Trump played a role in the Justice Department’s decision to block the companies’ $85.4 billion media merger. Makan Delrahim  the head of antitrust at the Justice Department  has said under oath in Congress that he would not allow the White House to impact his decisions over that merger or any other cases.Mr. Trump also surprised antitrust experts with his swift decision to block Broadcom’s merger with Qualcomm earlier this month  after a review by a government panel on foreign investments. The president has direct authority to block a merger with foreign companies that pose national security concerns.Amazon has tried  through lobbyists and outside consultants  to meet with administration officials and members of Congress to counter arguments about the company’s tax collection and its relationship with the Postal Service.The size of company’s lobbying staff has ballooned in recent years  according to public filings  focusing largely on drones  transportation  taxes and cybersecurity. It has hired antitrust consultants over the past year.In 2015  shortly after Mr. Trump started his attacks against the company  Mr. Bezos joked on Twitter about sending the candidate into space on a rocket made by Blue Origin  a space exploration start-up Mr. Bezos owns.But when Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee and then president  Mr. Bezos and Amazon stopped responding to his attacks  seeing little upside in a public quarrel with him  according to two people briefed on the decision. The people  who spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversations were private  said that these days  Mr. Trump’s tweets were more likely to prompt eye-rolling inside the company than any serious effort at crisis control.Michael D. Shear and Cecilia Kang reported from Washington and Nick Wingfield from Seattle. Katie Rogers and Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  3:27 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on "Roseanne" and President Donald Trump (all times local):3:20 p.m.Roseanne Barr is reveling in President Donald Trump's congratulatory call after her sitcom returned to impressive ratings.Barr posted Thursday on Twitter that it was a "thrill" to get a phone call from Trump. He's the fifth U.S. president she's received support from  Barr says.In another post  Barr says she feels humbled to consider the leaders she's met and talked with  including Democrats Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton and Republicans George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush.__3:15 p.m.President Donald Trump says he called Roseanne Barr following the debut of her ABC sitcom reboot  which drew 18.4 million viewers.AdvertisementBarr supports Trump  as does her character on the revamped ABC program.Trump said during an appearance Thursday in Ohio that he telephoned Barr. And he exclaimed  "Look at her ratings!"AdvertisementBarr told ABC's "Good Morning America" in a telephone interview Thursday that the call was "pretty exciting."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump is a former reality TV star who paid close attention to his ratings as host of "The Apprentice" on NBC.___2 p.m.President Donald Trump reached out to Roseanne Barr to congratulate her after the debut of her ABC sitcom reboot drew 18.4 million viewers.Speaking by telephone Thursday on ABC's "Good Morning America " Barr said the call was "pretty exciting." She described the exchange as a "friendly conversation about working in television and ratings."Barr  who said she has known Trump for years  is a political supporter of the president's. Her revamped sitcom tackles current politics  with Roseanne embracing Trump and clashing with her sister  a staunch opponent.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  3:03 P.M. E.D.T.
PORTLAND  Maine —  Republican Gov. Paul LePage  who's known for his brash comments  called the federal judge who allowed a lawsuit against President Donald Trump an "imbecile." Four times  no less.LePage hurled the insult Wednesday after learning that U.S. District Judge Peter Messitte in Maryland allowed the lawsuit accusing Trump  a Republican  of receiving unconstitutional gain to move forward.Maryland and the District of Columbia accused the president of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution. The provision bans the president from accepting gifts from foreign governments as well as U.S. states.The judge limited the lawsuit to the president's involvement with the Trump International Hotel in Washington.AdvertisementThe judge cited the Maine governor's stay at the Trump hotel as an example of how government officials could feel obliged or coerced to stay there "in order to help them obtain federal favors."AdvertisementLePage's office adamantly rejected any suggestion of a quid pro quo. "The governor chooses hotels based upon several factors including price  availability and security " press secretary Julie Rabinowitz said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.LePage  meanwhile  called the judge an imbecile four times in brief remarks to WGME-TV and said he hoped his insults carried to the judge's chambers."I didn't realize I could buy the president so cheap  a night in his hotel and he's in my back pocket " LePage said. "That's all I'm going to say. The judge that did that is an imbecile!"He went on to use the word three more times.The judge declined comment on Thursday.LePage's stay at Trump International in February 2017 was first reported by the Portland Press Herald after a public records request for the travel receipts of LePage and his state police security detail.LePage's group spent four nights there while LePage met with administration officials and testified against a national monument designation in Maine that's under review by the Trump administration.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump was voicing concern about Amazon.com Inc when he commented about the company on Twitter on Thursday  but the administration has no action dealing with the company at this time  the White House said."The president has expressed his concerns with Amazon " White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters told reporter on Air Force One en route to Ohio  where Trump was delivering a speech. "We have no actions at this time."Trump accused Amazon.com on Thursday of not paying enough tax  taking advantage of the U.S. postal system and putting small retailers out of business  but did not present any evidence to back up his criticisms or suggest any specific actions he planned to take.  (Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by David Alexander; Editing by Susan Thomas)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  6:16 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Attorney Gloria Allred says she's no longer representing a former contestant on "The Apprentice" who has accused President Donald Trump of unwanted kissing and groping.Allred is famous for advocating for women who accuse powerful men of sexual harassment. She didn't disclose a reason for her split with Summer Zervos.The decision came days after a New York court said Zervos could proceed with a defamation lawsuit against the Republican president.Zervos says Trump hurt her reputation by publicly denying her claims that he subjected her to unwanted advances.Most of the legal work in the lawsuit was being performed by a different attorney  Mariann Wang  who continues to represent Zervos.Allred said her firm's withdrawal "has nothing to do with the merits of her case against President Trump."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  5:03 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump ousted Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin on Wednesday in response to heavy criticism and nominated his personal physician  Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson  to replace him in the latest turnover among Trump's team.White House officials  speaking on condition of anonymity  said Shulkin had become a distraction due to a constant wave of speculation about his future and said he would be leaving in the next day or two. They said an undersecretary at the Department of Defense  Robert Wilkie  will be the acting secretary.Shulkin had drawn fire for a damning report from the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs. It found that during a trip to London and Denmark he improperly accepted tickets to the Wimbledon tennis tournament and his chief of staff made false statements so Shulkin's wife could travel at government expense.One official said the criticism of Shulkin was "making it harder for him to carry out the duties of secretary of the VA  which is something the president has made clear is a big priority for him."AdvertisementJackson  a rear admiral of the U.S. Navy  has been working as a presidential physician since the George W. Bush administration  and has been the lead doctor monitoring Trump's health since Trump became president.AdvertisementJackson gave Trump a clean bill of health early this year after giving the president a physical. He put him on a diet to lose some weight and directed him to get some exercise. Aides said Trump has been eating more fish and fewer cheeseburgers lately.A Texas native who has been on active duty since 1995  Jackson served during the U.S.-led war in Iraq as an emergency medicine physician in Taqaddum  Iraq."Admiral Jackson is highly trained and qualified and as a service member himself  he has seen firsthand the tremendous sacrifice our veterans make and has a deep appreciation for the debt our great country owes them " Trump said.A White House official said Trump warmed to Jackson and had been aware that Shulkin had sought to make Jackson the VA undersecretary last year."The president wants somebody who gives him the best possible care to go over and give that same care to the veterans. That's how strongly he feels about getting them represented properly " the official said.Trump said he appreciated Shulkin's work  including passage of the VA Accountability Act."He has been a great supporter of veterans across the country and I am grateful for his service " Trump said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.U.S. Representative Phil Roe  a Republican who chairs the House Committee on Veterans Affairs  said he hated to see Shulkin go but respected Trump's decision."At the end of the day  cabinet secretaries serve at the pleasure of the president " he said.Will Fischer  director of government relations for the VoteVets lobby group  said his group hopes Jackson will oppose any attempt to privatize the VA or its health services  a concept that Republicans talk about occasionally.Advertisement"If Dr. Jackson can do that  immediately  he will do a lot to help his chances at confirmation " Fischer said.The VA oversees healthcare and benefits going to roughly 20 million U.S. military veterans. The Veterans Health Administration  the largest integrated healthcare system in the United States  provides care at more than 1 200 facilities  including 170 VA Medical Centers  to more than 9 million veterans.Trump praised Shulkin as "fantastic" when he chose him to head the VA in January 2017. Trump  who promised improved veterans' care during his presidential campaign  last year said the department had made "tremendous progress" under Shulkin.But support for him at the White House eroded quickly in recent weeks as Trump grew weary of the drumbeat of negative headlines about him.Shulkin said after the release of the inspector general's report that he would comply with its recommendations  including reimbursing the government for his wife's $4 312 airfare and paying his friend for the Wimbledon tickets. The department announced two days after the report was issued that Shulkin's chief of staff  Vivieca Wright Simpson  would retire.Shulkin joins a long list of senior officials who have either resigned or been fired since Trump took office in January 2017. Others include Secretary of State Rex Tillerson  Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price  FBI chief James Comey and FBI No. 2 Andrew McCabe  Trump's chief strategist Steve Bannon  national security advisers H.R. McMaster and Michael Flynn  White House chief of staff Reince Priebus  communications directors Hope Hicks and Anthony Scaramucci  and economic adviser Gary Cohn.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Leslie Adler and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy PETER BAKER  ANDREW HIGGINS and STEVEN ERLANGERMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — Some senior Trump administration officials are pressing for more aggressive action toward Russia  hoping to persuade a reluctant President Trump to change his approach after a week of mass diplomatic expulsions that have driven the relationship with Moscow to its lowest point in decades.With hundreds of diplomats in Washington  Moscow and European capitals packing their bags as the tensions stemming from the poisoning of a former Russian spy living in Britain have worsened  the Trump team is eyeing additional sanctions and other measures against Russia. But while aides say the president has become increasingly convinced that Russia is dangerous  he has still refused to embrace a tougher public posture himself and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go.Mr. Trump has emphasized the importance of dialogue with Russia and its president  Vladimir V. Putin  yet the departure of so many diplomats expelled from both Russia and the United States will make it that much harder to maintain a semblance of normal relations between the two countries. Cooperation in areas as varied as agriculture  counterterrorism  military affairs and space exploration could diminish  as could private travel and business dealings.The perils of the diplomatic breakdown came into sharper relief on Friday. Russia’s ambassador in Washington lamented that no one would meet with him  and his embassy complained that Russian diplomats were being harassed by American intelligence agencies eager to recruit them.AdvertisementThe Pentagon  for its part  said that it had no notice of a test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile conducted by Russia and announced on Friday  a lack of communication that experts worry could lead to miscalculation.Advertisement“I don’t remember such bad shape of our relations ” Anatoly Antonov  the Russian ambassador to Washington  told NBC’s “Today” show. “There is a great mistrust between the United States and Russia.”Since his arrival last year in Washington  Mr. Antonov said he had invited American officials to his residence only to be repeatedly rebuffed. “If they are scared  I said  ‘Come on  we can meet in a restaurant and to discuss all outstanding issues ’” he said. “It was four or five months ago. And I got answer: silent.”American officials said a shift in the administration’s approach has been building for weeks. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson  whose last official day on the job is Saturday  had come to the conclusion before Mr. Trump fired him this month that a year of attempting to cooperate had not yielded much success  according to people familiar with his thinking. As a result  they said  Mr. Tillerson had begun mapping out a tougher policy toward Russia and found agreement in the White House.The administration began taking a more robust approach  publicly blaming Russia for a devastating attack on computers in Ukraine and elsewhere  accusing Moscow of trying to break into the United States’ power grid and imposing sanctions in retaliation for Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election in the United States.Mr. Tillerson’s feelings were hardened further by a conversation with Boris Johnson  the British foreign secretary who described to him the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy  Sergei V. Skripal  and his daughter living in Britain. Even in the hours before his dismissal by Mr. Trump  Mr. Tillerson spoke out in stronger terms than the president in condemning the poisoning.While Mr. Tillerson is on the way out  his designated successor  Mike Pompeo  and the incoming national security adviser  John R. Bolton  are both considered even more hawkish on Russia.At the same time  some officials at the Pentagon have expressed caution about the escalating conflict with Russia  citing consequences in Syria  where the United States and Russia have both conducted military operations.AdvertisementThe Trump administration expelled 60 Russian diplomats and intelligence officers and closed the Russian Consulate in Seattle this week as part of a wider international retaliation for the poisoning of Mr. Skripal. Russia responded Thursday by ordering out 60 Americans and closing the consulate in St. Petersburg.The scope of Russia’s retaliation grew clearer on Friday as the Kremlin summoned 23 ambassadors from other countries to evict some of their diplomats. On Saturday  the Tass news agency reported that Moscow had informed Britain it must send home a total of “more than 50” diplomats. Russia had already announced the expulsion of 23 Britons.Mr. Trump has remained publicly silent amid the dramatic rounds of diplomatic retaliation  leaving it to others to condemn Moscow. Frustrated by the investigation of the special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  into whether his campaign cooperated with Russia in 2016  a scenario he dismissed as a “hoax ” Mr. Trump recently called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his victory in a re-election widely dismissed as a sham.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump made no mention of the poisoning of Mr. Skripal during the call but instead suggested that he wanted to schedule a summit meeting with the Russian president.Both countries still have ambassadors in place  so high-level contact on potentially calamitous matters should continue  as it did at the height of the Cuban missile crisis. But the wheels of basic diplomacy  involving visas  consular services  cultural events and simply talking to people  are grinding ever more slowly and  in some cases  coming to a halt.“The parties lose some of their eyes and ears  so the quality of the reporting goes down ” said Charles A. Kupchan  who was the Europe director of the National Security Council under President Barack Obama. “It’s not just intelligence but day-to-day political and economic reporting: What’s the buzz in the street  what do interlocutors say? And consular services do get hit.”The expulsions left many diplomats wondering how the American Embassy in Moscow could operate. Much of the burden will fall on the ambassador  Jon M. Huntsman Jr.  who took over an embassy already struggling to function after an order by the Kremlin last summer that it dispense with 755 employees in response to sweeping American sanctions for Russia’s election meddling.“The embassy is struggling to do basic operations. This latest round will hurt ” said Michael A. McFaul  who served as ambassador in Moscow from 2012 to 2014. “Morale  of course  is also very low.”Even before this week’s expulsions  the wait in Moscow to obtain a visitor’s visa to the United States was among the longest in the world. It now takes 250 days just to get an appointment with the visa section  compared with four in Beijing and 31 in New Delhi.AdvertisementAn American spokesman told Russian news media this week that the embassy had been placed under “significant constraints” by the Foreign Ministry and “could not accommodate all their many requests at all times  particularly for large groups.”Simon Schuchat  a former diplomat at the embassy in the Moscow  recalled how haphazard and unnerving it was when Russia began the process of ousting alleged spies during a round of expulsions in 2001. Inevitably  Moscow ordered out diplomats unconnected to espionage.“They tended to go for people with better language skills ” Mr. Schuchat said  adding that they “missed many spies and included many non-spies.”This time around  intelligence officers working under “official cover” as diplomats were especially targeted  but some American officials played down the impact  saying the United States still came out ahead in the expulsions.“That’s to our benefit ” Dan Coats  the director of national intelligence  said at a seminar on Thursday in Austin  Tex. “There are a lot more Russians in America than Americans in Russia in the intelligence agencies.”On Friday  Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused the agencies overseen by Mr. Coats of exploiting the situation by approaching Russian diplomats leaving the United States to offer “assistance” in exchange for “entering into covert relations” on behalf of the American government.“The ploy is not working ” the ministry said in a statement  “but their behavior is cynical and distasteful  as if Washington has stepped completely beyond the bounds of common decency.”Peter Baker reported from Washington  Andrew Higgins from Moscow  and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Gardiner Harris contributed reporting from Washington  Matthew Luxmoore from Moscow  and Eric Schmitt from Austin  Tex.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Is Urged To Get Tougher On Russia Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ERIC SCHMITT  HELENE COOPER and ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump  having this week signaled a possible withdrawal of American troops from Syria  has ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts there while the administration reassesses its role in the conflict  administration officials said Friday.The freeze on stabilization and humanitarian aid came as two members of the United States-led coalition fighting in Syria were killed — one American soldier and one British — and five others were wounded by a bomb in a late-night attack  the military said on Friday.The attack took place near Manbij in northern Syria  and is believed to have been carried out by remnants of the Islamic State fighting force  a senior American military official said.A statement posted by the United States Central Command  which directs American forces in the region  said “an improvised explosive device” detonated about 11 p.m. local time on Thursday.AdvertisementThe statement did not reveal the identities of the service members involved  how seriously the survivors were hurt or where in Syria the attack occurred. The American-led coalition includes about 30 countries  but only a few have forces on the ground.Advertisement“The names of the deceased will be released at the discretion of the pertinent national authorities ” the statement said. “Details pertaining to the incident are being withheld pending further investigation.”A statement released on Friday by the Ministry of Defense in London confirmed that the second soldier killed in the blast was British  and that the mission was to counter fighters with the Islamic State.Coalition forces have been deployed to Syria to fight  alongside Kurdish militia allies  against the Islamic State. But with that group largely routed  the seven-year civil war in Syria has entered a dangerous new phase.Two American allies  Turkey and the Kurds  who control parts of northern Syria  are fighting each other. And the Kurds and coalition forces are engaged in a tense standoff with the Syrian government  along with its allies — Russia  Iran and Iranian-backed militias.On Thursday  President Trump suggested that the United States could pull its approximately 2 000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” The comments surprised Defense Department officials who have maintained that some kind of American presence in parts of Syria may be necessary to avoid recreating the conditions that led to the rise of the Islamic State — and also to avoid ceding influence in the country to Russia.“Very soon  we’re coming out ” Mr. Trump said during a rally in Ohio. “We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”The suspension of funds for recovery efforts in Syria comes as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict there  a State Department official said on Friday. The freeze on funding was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There will be meetings on this next week ” said the official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a policy review was continuing. “Obviously  we  State  hope that this decision is reversed.”AdvertisementA National Security Council official explained the White House’s position: “In line with the president’s guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis.”Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had committed the aid in February in Kuwait at a meeting of countries who have joined together to defeat the Islamic State.Pentagon officials in the past few months have said repeatedly that a complete withdrawal of American troops could leave a void. On Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground ” they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.It was unclear how the death of the American service member in the newest attack would influence Mr. Trump’s thinking on a possible American withdrawal. Beyond that  the Islamic State remains in the eastern half of Syria  and Defense Department officials caution that suggestions the group has been completely routed understates the Islamic State presence in Syria.As if to demonstrate the complexity of the situation in Syria  President Emmanuel Macron of France sought on Thursday to position his country as a bridge between the Kurdish fighters and Turkey by serving as a mediator in talks — an effort that was rejected by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Mr. Macron told a delegation of that included a number of Syrian Kurds that France “honored the sacrifices and the determining role” played by Kurdish fighters in the battle against the Islamic State  which has largely been driven out of Syria  and he expressed concern about Afrin  the northern enclave where Turkey recently pushed out the Kurds.He stopped short  however  at least in his public statements  from offering to back the Kurds militarily. It was a similar balancing act as the one taken in February by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian  who when asked about Turkey’s incursion in northern Syria said that France had already warned that it was “not acceptable to add war to war” in Syria.Mr. Erdogan ridiculed his French counterpart on Friday  saying that he met with Mr. Macron last week and that the French leader was saying “weird things” that required Mr. Erdogan to say  “tough.”“We don’t need a negotiator ” Mr. Erdogan said. “Since when has Turkey had an issue of sitting down at a table with terror groups? Where did you get this? You can sit down with terror groups  but Turkey fights against terror as it did in Afrin. You keep going on like this. Who do you think you are that you can utter the word negotiating between Turkey and terror groups?”Eric Schmitt and Helene Cooper reported from Washington and Alissa J. Rubin from Paris. Richard Pérez-Peña and Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Orders Freeze on Syria Financing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »The conservative author says that Donald Trump is in danger of losing his most loyal supporters  including her  if he doesn’t build the wall.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack NicasSAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election  executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google ” said Sundar Pichai  the company’s chief executive  according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election  the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said  “Boy  that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat  the finance chief  said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Sixteen months later  Google’s parent company  Alphabet  has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones  as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites.Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents  Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected  tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now  many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests  even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues.The relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday  accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation   passed by the Senate last week  that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users.Yet quietly  the tech industry has warmed to the White House  especially as companies including Alphabet  Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Those include lowering corporate taxes  encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and  so far  ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals  with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really  really good for tech ” said Gary Shapiro  who leads the Consumer Technology Association  the largest American tech trade group  with more than 2 200 members including Apple  Google  Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton  Mr. Trump’s opponent  in 2016  but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment  they have found areas where their interests align  like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.“This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here ” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers  “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others ” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.”Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas  the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States.“You know  for $350 million  you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion  they’re going to build a lot of plants ” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook  Apple’s chief executive  to personally thank him.In fact  Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working  according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not  however  publicly corrected the president.Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy  while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign.Michael Kratsios  the White House’s deputy chief technology officer  said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences  “in places where we do see eye to eye  I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.”Dean Garfield  head of the Information Technology Industry Council  a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms  said his members walked a tightrope  supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately  he said  “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016  Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos  Amazon’s chief executive  once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November  Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies  including Google  Facebook and Uber  filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue.Even so  tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president  with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting  Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella  Microsoft’s chief executive  also dined with Jared Kushner  the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law  and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home  according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters.Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September  tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon  Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure.But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill.Tech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules  Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes  according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20 000 new workers  invest in new data centers and another domestic campus  and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2 500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler ” with nearly 1 000 followers  has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president.“Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here ” said the “About” section of the page  which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month  the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war ” the page said.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month  Rob Goldman  Facebook’s vice president of advertising  played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome  including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly.Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president  said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly.Two days later  Facebook’s policy chief  Joel Kaplan  distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments  and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions ” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JIM RUTENBERG  KATE KELLY  JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MIKE McINTIREMARCH 29  2018
In July  David J. Pecker  the chairman of the company that owns The National Enquirer  visited his old friend President Trump at the White House.The tabloid publisher took along a special guest  Kacy Grine  a French businessman who advises one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men and sometimes acts as an intermediary between Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Western businesses.The two men and other Pecker associates chatted with the president in the Oval Office and briefly met with Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and Middle East envoy  Jared Kushner. Before moving on to dinner with the group  the president had a photographer snap pictures of the guests standing with him behind his desk.Mr. Pecker has long used his media empire to protect Mr. Trump’s image. During the 2016 presidential campaign  Mr. Pecker’s company  American Media Inc.  suppressed the story of a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementThe night of the dinner  Mr. Pecker got something from Mr. Trump: an unofficial seal of approval from the White House.AdvertisementIt was an opportune moment for Mr. Pecker to showcase his White House connections. He was considering expanding his media and events businesses into Saudi Arabia and also was hunting for moneyed partners in acquisitions.The intersection of the tabloid publisher with the Saudis  enhanced by the White House visit  is a previously untold chapter in the long  symbiotic relationship between the president and Mr. Pecker  which was forged in the 1990s. At the time  Mr. Trump was celebrating a real estate comeback after his casino bankruptcies and was both the subject and the source of much gossip in New York.Mr. Pecker  who had known Mr. Grine only for a few months  invited him to the dinner to thank him for advice he had provided about investing in the Middle East  according to someone who knew of the invitation.Word soon traveled back to Saudi Arabia about the dinner: It signaled Mr. Pecker’s powerful status in Washington.Two months later  he was in Saudi Arabia  meeting with Mr. Grine and the crown prince about business opportunities there  according to A.M.I.And by January  Mr. Pecker was confident enough about his growing rapport with Saudi investors that he sought their help bankrolling a possible acquisition of Time magazine  which he had long coveted  according to two people with direct knowledge of the talks. A.M.I. disputed that.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.The people briefed on the interactions between A.M.I. and Saudi Arabia requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The outcome of Mr. Pecker’s efforts to do business with the Saudis remains unclear. But he is still working to cultivate ties. This week  he and Mr. Grine both attended events in New York featuring Prince Mohammed  who is on a tour across the United States.AdvertisementAhead of that visit  A.M.I. published a 97-page glossy magazine that is essentially a promotional brochure for Saudi Arabia and the crown prince. It makes no mention of anything troubling  like the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen  human rights concerns or the crown prince’s arrest last fall of many extended royals  including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  an influential client of Mr. Grine’s.The magazine — which refers to Saudi Arabia throughout as “the Magic Kingdom” — includes an interview with Mr. Grine  accompanied by a photo of him posing with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office  taken during his visit with Mr. Pecker. It talks up the relationship between Mr. Trump and the Saudis  noting that Mr. Trump “endorsed the crown prince’s high profile anticorruption” crackdown.A.M.I. has said it produced the magazine to “capitalize” on interest in the crown prince  who is next in line to the throne  and has been careful to say it received no input or guidance from Saudi officials. That carries important legal implications: Foreign direction or control of such a purely promotional publication may require disclosure to the Justice Department. The Saudi government did not respond to a request for comment.The magazine — 200 000 copies distributed in Walmart and other outlets  with a cover price of $13.99 and no advertising — provided a unique welcome mat for the prince  whose visit comes as the Trump administration is trying to establish tighter ties with the kingdom. Both countries are touting cross-border investment opportunities  including a pledge by the Saudi government to put $20 billion into a fund that will invest in American infrastructure projects. The kingdom is also nearing a deal to buy American-made missiles and other military equipment.Mr. Grine  a 30-year-old French citizen  has helped broker deals between Saudi investors and companies in France  Senegal and the United States. He and Mr. Pecker were introduced last spring by Ari Emanuel  chief executive of Endeavor  the huge talent  entertainment and sports company based in Beverly Hills  Calif.Mr. Grine and Mr. Pecker soon had a series of discussions about the investment landscape in Saudi Arabia  according to a person briefed on the talks. Mr. Pecker extended the White House dinner invitation shortly afterward.A.M.I. would not say who else was among the “select group of friends” Mr. Pecker took to the White House at the president’s invitation. During the evening  the Middle East and the recent French elections came up. In a statement  A.M.I. said  “The entire conversation was social  with the exception of a couple very brief mentions of current events.”AdvertisementMr. Pecker is best known for The Enquirer  but his media empire is wide-ranging. A.M.I.’s titles include Men’s Journal  Hers  Flex and Muscle & Fitness.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The publisher has used the company at times to protect close friends  including Mr. Trump. Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  recently filed a lawsuit alleging that Mr. Trump’s lawyer was secretly involved when A.M.I. tried to bury her story about an affair with Mr. Trump. A.M.I. bought the rights to her story during the presidential campaign for $150 000 but never published it. In the world of gossip media  such a maneuver is known as a “catch and kill” operation.Mr. Trump’s lawyer Michael D. Cohen and A.M.I. have denied the allegations. Mr. Trump’s representatives say the affair never happened.During the campaign  The Enquirer also published scathing articles about Mr. Trump’s rivals  as well as perceived antagonists like the television host Megyn Kelly. In promoting Mr. Trump  The Enquirer endorsed a candidate for the first time in its history.Since he entered the White House  A.M.I. titles have run articles alleging a “deep state” plot to undermine Mr. Trump. As scandals engulfed the White House  a recent Enquirer cover blared: “Donald & Melania Fight Back! Exposing the Lies  Leaks and Intimidation. How They’ll Crush Their Enemies!”The support appears mutual. Mr. Trump at times has praised Mr. Pecker’s stewardship of A.M.I. He once endorsed Mr. Pecker to run Time magazine  whose cover  Mr. Trump has incorrectly asserted  has featured him more than anyone else.“David Pecker would be a brilliant choice as CEO of TIME Magazine — nobody could bring it back like David!” Mr. Trump wrote in a Tweet in 2013.Asked about Mr. Pecker’s interest in Time  A.M.I.’s chief content officer  Dylan Howard  said  “Any media executive worth his or her salt must look at any acquisition opportunity in today’s media climate.”A.M.I. has struggled financially. It went through a series of restructurings in the last decade  including a bankruptcy in 2010 in which the company reported up to $1 billion in debts  before being acquired four years ago by two private equity funds.AdvertisementThe company said in a statement that it was “in an incredibly stable financial position.”Mr. Pecker has continued to hunt for new acquisitions. Last year  he bought Us Weekly from Wenner Media. But money remained scarce  according to A.M.I.’s financial advisers. When Mr. Pecker’s friend Harvey Weinstein suggested last fall that they team up to purchase Rolling Stone  Mr. Pecker expressed little interest. “I can not contribute any cash ” he wrote in an email obtained by The New York Times.In that same Sept. 28 exchange  he wrote to Mr. Weinstein: “I am in Saudi Arabia on business. Can’t call from here.”During the visit to Saudi Arabia  Mr. Grine arranged for himself and Mr. Pecker to meet with Prince Mohammed  who is the chairman of the kingdom’s deep-pocketed Public Investment Fund. At the meeting  Mr. Pecker described his vision for expanding his events business  which includes the Mr. Olympia bodybuilding competition  into Saudi Arabia.Maggie Haberman and Megan Twohey contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tabloid Mogul Visited Trump To Woo Saudis.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter  the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust ” is now one of them.A week ago  when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall  her frustrations with him  expressed frequently in her syndicated columns  turned into fury. “Congratulations  President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night  she referred to him as a “shallow  lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon  she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest  most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller  “¡Adios  America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.“Perhaps no single writer has had such an immediate impact on a presidential election since Harriet Beecher Stowe ” David Frum  a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush  later observed in The Atlantic.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle  predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of  and tribune for  some of his core supporters  including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan  Wisconsin  Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.Frank Bruni: Over the last few days you have become one of Trump’s fiercest critics. What happened?Ann Coulter: What was great about him being a coarse vulgarian was that he didn’t care about the opinions of Manhattan sophisticates  so when they come to him and say  “Oh  no  you can’t say you want to build a wall  that’s such a gauche opinion  that’s held by the people in the outer boroughs.” Anyone else would say  “Oh  no  I’m sorry  was anyone watching? Oh  I didn’t mean Mexicans are sending their rapists. I meant they’re sending their Nobel Prize winners. They’re sending their absolute best here. That’s what I meant.” That’s what any other Republican would have done — instantly gone cowering. He never did that.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me  Goldman Sachs.”Bruni: The $1.3 trillion spending bill that he signed last week sent you over the edge.Coulter: Yes. This is a different category you’re seeing now: Former Trumpers. That should be terrifying to the president. Maybe he’ll actually keep his promises. Unlike Marco Rubio. Unlike the rest of them. Unlike Mitch McConnell. We have been betrayed over and over and over with presidents promising to do something about immigration. If he played us for suckers  oh  you will not see rage like you have seen.Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say  perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign  it sounds like it’s divisive and angry  but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things  but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.Bruni: I don’t want to debate immigration policy.Coulter: But that is the issue of the Former Trumpers. We are voting on the issues  not the man  and I think that is how you get away from tribal politics.Bruni: When you say you don’t care about the man  I immediately flashed on Stormy Daniels. You had a tweet just the other day in which you said: “Stormy says she and Trump had sex only once. I guess if you want the guy to screw you repeatedly you have to be one of his voters.” Does the Stormy Daniels story — does his behavior — bother you?Coulter: The fact that he’s totally walked away from his central campaign promises does change your opinion of things like that and how you evaluate them. I said throughout the campaign  “This is a one-time pass for a two-time divorcé.”Bruni: You came to prominence going after Bill Clinton for behavior like Trump’s  right?Coulter: No  that was quite different. That’s perjury and obstruction. You can’t have a legal system if people can just take an oath and just lie. It wasn’t just the philandering.In general  my sense of all of the claims about Trump and the women and the sexual misbehavior is that it is not true. I actually think he probably is a gentleman and is home at night at 9 p.m. sitting in bed eating cheeseburgers.Bruni: So many women have come forward and said he made advances that were unwanted.Coulter: That was very close to the election and they had many years to do that.Bruni: So you don’t believe them?Coulter: I tend to discount almost all of them. The Stormy Daniels case  you can go either way.Bruni: One more Stormy thing  another tweet of yours  you must have been watching the interview  and you picked out the quote  “You remind me of my daughter.” Please expand on why you tweeted that.Coulter: I was watching it live. I was in the gym so I could watch the basketball games. And I emailed it to about 100 of my friends before tweeting it  thinking  “Don’t tweet it  don’t tweet it.” And I just said  “Screw it  I’ve got to tweet it.” It’s just creepy.Bruni: He didn’t get the money for the wall. Tell me quickly what else is wrong with that spending bill.Coulter: I don’t know what more horrible thing you could come up with than violating your central campaign promise that became the chant and the theme of the campaign that he promised at every single rally. I mean  implementing the principles of “The Communist Manifesto” wouldn’t be more of a betrayal than that. It’s totally secondary to me  but it’s kind of hilarious that more money is being given to the Department of Health and Human Services than Barack Obama even requested in his budget.Bruni: I don’t think people understand what an intellectual godparent of Trumpism you are. Tell us about the beginning of Ann Coulter and Donald Trump.Coulter: This is a much happier part of the interview. First of all  much like trade  immigration wasn’t an issue that Trump just latched onto. Back in 2013  when Rubio was pushing his total-betrayal amnesty bill  Trump was tweeting like mad and I was re-tweeting him — and put the tweets in columns — saying: “G.O.P.  what are you doing  this is going to destroy the country. You don’t know who you are amnestying. You don’t know how many there are.” He had great tweets on the issue.“¡Adios  America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying  “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.Bruni: At an Iowa campaign rally for Trump in August 2015  you said  “Since Donald Trump has announced that he is running for president  I felt like I’m dreaming.” Why?Coulter: Every day  you’d wake up and they’d be arguing about anchor babies and sanctuary cities. We never saw that before  not on Fox  not on MSNBC. You never saw people talking about it.Bruni: You have a strange dreamscape. My dreams don’t include anchor babies  but that’s just me. You’ve told me before that Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were nowhere to be found until Trump’s poll numbers rose. That’s your prompt to talk about two of your least favorite people in the administration.Coulter: They’re lovely people but  boy  I think Trump voters can say this was a bait-and-switch. There was no intimation during that 18 months of the most magnificent campaign I’ve ever seen that  “Don’t worry  I won’t go to the White House without Jared and Ivanka and I’ll be setting policy to make sure they lose no friends in the Hamptons.” I always suspected they were back in New York denying they were related to him.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company  I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.Bruni: So the two of them have no business being in the advisory roles  and in the proximity to him that they are.Coulter: Yeah. And I’m not telling tales out of school: As was accurately reported in Michael Wolff’s book  “Fire and Fury ” I’ve told the president this and I’ve tried to get everyone else around him to tell him this.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A  they know nothing about politics. B  as far as we know  to this moment  they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general  the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.Bruni: You told him this directly?Coulter: I’ve leaked nothing from my conversations  interactions  ever. This one was leaked by someone else  and since there was only one other person on that phone call …. It was me and the president and this was during the transition.Bruni: And he said what in response?Coulter: First of all  I had tried to get this to him through  I think  Corey Lewandowski. Definitely Steve Bannon. Stephen Miller. Peter Thiel. I said  “You’ve got to tell him you can’t hire your kids.” And every one of them said  “That’s above my pay grade.” So when I talked to him  I said  “Apparently no one else will tell you this  but you can’t hire your kids.” And I went on quite a bit longer than that  that he was looking like Evita Perón.He does listen  contrary to what people say. He said  “You’re right  nobody else would tell me that.” So at the Wolff book party — and I didn’t leak anything to him — I said to Wolff  “I didn’t tell you anything  how did you know I had told him this? It had to be the president or someone the president told.” And he said: “Oh  yeah  it was the president. He was storming around the Oval Office  saying  ‘And then Ann Coulter told me ….’” So  yeah  he listens.Bruni: You implied that Trump was governing so that Jared and Ivanka wouldn’t lose their friends in the Hamptons. But he went for the Muslim ban. He backed out of the Paris climate accord.Coulter: That was in the first week. But from mostly  probably  the reporting of Maggie Haberman — she does seem to have an excellent pipeline to the Oval Office — it was Jared’s idea to fire James Comey. It was Jared’s idea to hire Anthony Scaramucci. At any point  does it dawn on someone  “Every time I take this guy’s advice  disaster ensues?” It doesn’t seem to be hitting home. Why? Because it’s a relative.Bruni: One of the things that most stunned me as his administration came together was he spent so much time during the campaign railing against Wall Street  fashioning himself as a populist. This was the richest cabinet  I think  in history.Coulter: I was terrified and I told them so. Is Trump the only person who didn’t know that generals are so P.C.? They are suck-ups. He’s not getting Patton. He’s getting Chihuahuas. He used to say  “I want General Patton.” Well  it’s not Patton anymore.Bruni: One month into Donald Trump’s presidency  you said  “So far  I give him an A-plus.”Coulter: Oh  I liked his tweets.Bruni: You were giving Donald Trump an A-plus on his presidency because you liked his tweets?Coulter: I think so.Bruni: By then he had hired a cabinet that you found abhorrent. By then he had brought Jared and Ivanka to Washington. But he’s still getting an A-plus? Even Harvard doesn’t have grade inflation like that.Coulter: I believe my columns gave more thoughtful reviews. I think I was being a little ironic and cheerleading there because I was obviously attacking him immediately in the columns.Bruni: What’s his grade today?Coulter: We’re halfway through the semester and he’s failing. He could still get ahead. There’s still a shot for extra credit.Bruni: Let me guess: It involves a wall.Coulter: There is one thing he promised every single day for 18 months. Don’t act like I’m the nut wanting a wall. That was the chant at every rally. I didn’t make this up.Bruni: But let’s be adults here. Was Mexico ever going to pay for it?Coulter: No. 1  his voters absolutely do not care.Bruni: He promised that as often as he promised the wall.Coulter: I know  but it was like me giving him an A-plus. It was just a fun chant. I promise you: We want a wall  we don’t care who pays for it. But it’s very easy: In 10 years  if we just stopped giving Mexico foreign aid  we’d pay for it.Bruni: Are you a Former Trumper?Coulter: He can still come back. If he builds the wall  he’ll be the Emperor God again. I’ll throw a huge party. I’ll start a committee to put him on Mount Rushmore. But right now  if I were a betting woman  I don’t think we’re getting a wall.Bruni: What the hell does Donald Trump believe in? What is his compass? I used to think it was applause  but now I think it’s incoherence. You’re the scholar of Donald Trump. Tell me what he believes in.Coulter: I really think in his heart of hearts he does believe in the #MAGA agenda. I think his Achilles’ heel is that he wants to be liked. For 18 months he didn’t want to be liked by cafe society  but starting Nov. 8  he just wants applause from The New York Times. It’s very odd how he’s always running to New York Times reporters and writers and not particularly giving interviews to the people  the broadcasters and the radio hosts  who supported him. Why is he calling it fake news when it’s all he wants to be on?Bruni: You told me he was going to prevail in the primaries and the general election. Look into the future now. When and how does this presidency end?Coulter: I really don’t know. He still could come back. He can build the wall. He’s commander in chief. Will he do it? I wouldn’t bet on it right now.Bruni: Will he be impeached?Coulter: That I don’t know. Things aren’t looking good for holding the House.Bruni: Will Republicans hold either the House or Senate?Coulter: Senate math suggests Republicans hold the Senate. If it is a blue wave  the Democrats take the House. I think they might not impeach him. They may think they can get more from this guy than they would under Hillary Clinton.Bruni: They may think he’s better taken advantage of than impeached?Coulter: Yeah. If they impeach him  I think Republicans might want to get rid of him. I think they might rather deal with Mike Pence and not have to be constantly asked by reporters about this and that tweet.Bruni: Does Trump have anywhere  politically  to go? Look at his loss of the popular vote. We’re talking about 77 000 votes in three states. I could argue it’s a fluke he was elected. If he pleases those who elected him  I’m not sure that he gets re-elected  but if he moves as far away from you as you say he has  I still don’t think he can get the people in the middle. Does he really have a political path to survival?Coulter: That’s a really good point. The hate for him on the left is visceral. Graydon Carter is never going to say  “Well  I have to admit he’s done something right.” The only way he has to go is to go back to the #MAGA agenda.Bruni: But I don’t think that’s enough either.Coulter: I disagree. I think it would be. A  it’s his only chance  although it may not help Jared and Ivanka be popular in the Hamptons. B  I think he can win independents over. He has not been a fascist. When a court unconstitutionally says he can’t ban immigrants on the basis of national security or what’s good for the country  he complies.Bruni: We have heard and we have written endlessly about Never Trumpers. What are Former Trumpers? If he loses you Former Trumpers permanently  what’s he left with?Coulter: This is not Never Trumpers. It was very easy to brush aside Jeb Exclamation Point. Charlie Sykes. Bill Kristol. The Former Trumpers are the ones who would die for Trump  who would defend him from anything  who did defend him and blew off the “Access Hollywood” tape — blew off everything. We kept coming back. He could sell Ivanka Trump merchandise from the Oval Office if he would just build the wall.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about  because  you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 30  2018
SEOUL  South Korea — South Korea settled disputes with the Trump administration over steel tariffs and the revision of a free-trade agreement this week. With those stumbling blocks cleared  it hoped the two governments could focus on the more pressing crisis of North Korea’s nuclear weapons.As it turned out  South Korea was celebrating too early.On Thursday  President Trump said he might postpone finalizing the trade agreement with South Korea  which he had earlier described as “a wonderful deal with a wonderful ally ” until he secured a deal in denuclearizing North Korea.“You know why?” he said. “Because it’s a very strong card.”By tying a trade deal with South Korea to progress in denuclearizing North Korea  Mr. Trump is showing how little direct leverage Washington has over the isolated  nuclear-armed North just as South Korea and the United States prepare for talks with Kim Jong-un  the North’s leader.Instead  analysts say  Mr. Trump has been left to exert leverage on South Korea  which is taking the lead in orchestrating the talks  and the South’s president  Moon Jae-in.Advertisement“Things are not going as Trump has wished for  so he is twisting South Korea’s arms so that Moon will work for the kind of results Washington wanted when he meets with Kim Jong-un ” said Koh Yu-hwan  a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul  the South Korean capital. “Like the businessman he is  Trump is telling Moon  ‘I will pay you — when you produce the results.’ ”Mr. Trump’s maneuvers against South Korea have hardened his image as a leader who is ready to threaten or sideline allies in order to push his agenda.AdvertisementPrevious United States administrations used the military alliance that South Korea depends on for its security as leverage in securing American interests in trade and other negotiations  but they did so in low-key negotiations  South Korean officials said. Mr. Trump has made much of that process public.“Trump does not separate security from trade; they are all part of his pack of cards  while Moon tended to see them as separate issues ” said Shim Sang-ryul  a professor of international trade at Kwangwoon University in Seoul.But Mr. Trump’s decision to link the trade deal with South Korea to a breakthrough in denuclearizing North Korea shows a growing unease in Washington  analysts said. Washington fears that Seoul might drift from their alliance and move closer to Beijing  while Mr. Trump feels his approach to North Korea is being undermined in the wake of a flurry of diplomatic initiatives by Mr. Kim in recent weeks  especially his meeting this week with China’s president  Xi Jinping  analysts said. (On Thursday  North Korea released an English-language version of a documentary of the trip.)When Mr. Kim began seeking talks this year after ratcheting up regional tensions with a string of nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missile tests  United States officials argued that he had done so because of pressure from Mr. Trump  including the threat of sanctions.But analysts say that Mr. Kim had already been planning to seek talks at the end of a hurried effort to complete what he called “a state nuclear force” last year. Analysts say his goal was to enter negotiations with Washington with a much stronger hand than his father and predecessor  Kim Jong-il  had in the 1990s and 2000s.Adding to that  Mr. Kim’s decision to travel to Beijing to meet with Mr. Xi before his planned summit meetings with the South Korean and American presidents was a brilliant maneuver  analysts said.AdvertisementBy choosing Beijing for his first trip abroad as leader  Mr. Kim recommitted North Korea to the traditional — yet much frayed — Communist alliance with China. At the same time  Mr. Kim’s visit helped China reassert its role in diplomacy around denuclearizing North Korea  a process that has been dominated by South Korea and the United States in recent months. If China’s role on the Korean Peninsula grows bigger  it strengthens North Korea’s leverage in talks and helps China as well if a trade war with the United States comes to pass  said Professor Shim.Mr. Kim’s meeting with Mr. Xi has already complicated Mr. Trump’s calculations.China’s state news media reported that Mr. Kim had called for “phased  synchronized” moves toward denuclearizing his country — the same approach the North insisted on in past negotiations with Washington. In those talks  the North said it would take only incremental steps toward giving up its nuclear program  beginning with a freeze  and demanded that the United States offer simultaneous incentives. Those past discussions all eventually collapsed as Washington and Pyongyang accused each other of reneging on agreements.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kim’s call for a phased approach raised the possibility of drawn out and uncertain negotiations  dimming the hopes for the so-called Libyan model of rapid dismantlement  which Mr. Trump and his new pick for national security adviser  John R. Bolton  prefer.A key problem for Mr. Trump is that South Korea sides with China in arguing that the Libyan model is unrealistic  championing an “action-for-action” phased approach for denuclearization. When Mr. Xi’s envoy  Yang Jiechi  visited Seoul this week  South Korea and China agreed to cooperate for a peaceful resolution of the North Korean crisis. On Friday  a senior aide for Mr. Moon told reporters that the North’s nuclear weapons program  which has been developing over the past 25 years  could not be dismantled “like you turn off your TV by pulling out the electricity cord.”Lee Jong-seok  a former South Korean unification minister  said  “The key will be how to persuade North Korea to take a couple or few early concrete steps early — for instance  measures concerning its nuclear test site or its ICBM production facilities — that would help convince the Americans that it is sincere about denuclearization.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy JOHN KOBLIN and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMMARCH 29  2018
On the morning after the 2016 election  a group of nearly a dozen ABC executives gathered at their Burbank  Calif.  headquarters to determine what Donald J. Trump’s victory meant for the network’s future.“We looked at each other and said  ‘There’s a lot about this country we need to learn a lot more about  here on the coasts ’” Ben Sherwood  the president of Disney and ABC’s television group  said in an interview.They began asking themselves which audiences they were not serving well and what they could do to better live up to the company name — the American Broadcasting Company. By the meeting’s end  they had in place the beginnings of a revised strategy that led the network to reboot a past hit centered on a struggling Midwestern family  a show that had a chance to appeal to the voters who had helped put Mr. Trump in the White House.On Tuesday night  the strategy proved more successful than the executives had hoped: “Roseanne” premiered to the highest ratings for any network sitcom in almost four years.AdvertisementThe show’s approach to sociopolitical issues — its star and co-creator  Roseanne Barr  plays an unabashed Trump supporter who spars with her liberal sister  played by Laurie Metcalf — especially reverberated among heartland viewers. The top markets for the debut read like a political pollster’s red-state checklist: Cincinnati; Kansas City  Mo.; Tulsa  Okla. Liberal enclaves like New York and Los Angeles did not crack the top 20.AdvertisementChanning Dungey  the president of ABC Entertainment  said the success of “Roseanne” was a direct result of the post-Election Day initiative to pursue an audience that the network had overlooked.“We had spent a lot of time looking for diverse voices in terms of people of color and people from different religions and even people with a different perspective on gender ” Ms. Dungey said. “But we had not been thinking nearly enough about economic diversity and some of the other cultural divisions within our own country. That’s been something we’ve been really looking at with eyes open since that time.”As the Nielsen numbers for “Roseanne” rolled in  ABC executives went from gobsmacked — Mr. Sherwood said he thought the early figures he had seen were a mistake — to euphoric.“People gather round and they see themselves in this family ” Mr. Sherwood said. “It speaks to a large number of people in the country who don’t see themselves on television very often.”By Thursday  this dusted-off sitcom centered on a highly opinionated matriarch had become a flash point in the nation’s culture wars. It had also spurred a cathartic response from many conservatives  who counted its opening-night success as their own.Among those celebrating was President Trump  who called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the “huge” ratings. On Thursday  he gave a shout-out to the Emmy-winning star during a rally in Ohio.“Look at Roseanne! Look at her ratings!” President Trump told the crowd of union workers  adding: “They were unbelievable! Over 18 million people! And it was about us!”AdvertisementRight-wing pundits praised the show as a mic-drop moment for conservatives weary of being portrayed unflatteringly or ignored altogether on network shows. On Fox News  Sean Hannity congratulated her on her “massive audience ” and Laura Ingraham approvingly played a “Roseanne” clip  saying  “Funny what can happen when Hollywood makes programming that’s not condescending toward half the country.”On Thursday  via Twitter  Mr. Hannity invited Ms. Barr to guest-host his show. “DM me ” Ms. Barr replied.Ms. Barr  65  supported Mr. Trump in 2016  but she makes for an unlikely conservative standard-bearer: Aside from her support of same-sex marriage and abortion rights  she was once denounced by the elder President George Bush as “disgraceful” after delivering a lewd  off-key rendition of the national anthem at a 1990 baseball game.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On television  however  she plays a grandmother who is worried about paying the bills and grappling with a grandson who prefers to wear girl’s clothing. The onscreen Roseanne makes for a sharp foil to Ms. Metcalf’s character  who wears a “nasty woman” T-shirt and accuses Trump supporters of “wrapping yourselves up in the flag and clinging to your guns.”“The show doesn’t advocate for Trump voters  but it respects them ” said Alex Castellanos  a veteran Republican strategist based in Florida. “Apparently  this is still news to people in the entertainment business  that there is an American working class.”For years  ABC focused on other demographic groups. With series like “The Bachelor ” “black-ish ” “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Modern Family ” the network’s lineup was notably diverse. But it was also geared toward upper-middle-class viewers  Ms. Dungey said.By November 2016  ABC was coming off a TV season when it had finished in last place among the four major broadcast networks  with little hope of escaping the ratings basement in the near future. Like other networks  it was also losing viewers to Netflix and other streaming platforms.The meeting that took place on the morning after Mr. Trump’s surprise victory led the network to reconsider its strategy. Mr. Sherwood summed up what was going through his mind that day: “Given the declines of broadcast television  the year-after-year declines  are we programming in a way that is turning people off?”In response  ABC decided to back the singing competition show “American Idol” less than two years after it had been canceled on Fox  its original network home.Advertisement“We went after it because that’s a show that  fundamentally  is about the American dream ” Mr. Sherwood said. “It’s about a girl with a cowboy hat and a boy with a banjo and people from small towns where music has saved their lives in different ways.”“Roseanne ” which had its first run on ABC from 1988 to 1997  was another prime candidate for a reboot. It was a top-rated comedy that had won its share of Emmys and Golden Globes — not to mention that the woman who played its title character had become a vocal Trump supporter.Even as the president portrayed the success of “Roseanne” as a win of his own  however  ABC executives and “Roseanne” producers rejected the notion that the show’s popularity was mainly because of its appeal to Trump supporters.“I would compare this to ‘All in the Family ’” said Tom Werner  an executive producer of “Roseanne” and other hit sitcoms like “The Cosby Show” and “3rd Rock From the Sun.” “A number of people watching ‘All in the Family’ said  ‘Archie’s a conservative and therefore it’s a show about a conservative.’ Well  it was made by Norman Lear.“Part of the reason the show is successful is because it taps into the frustration and disappointment that working-class people feel about the economy right now ” he continued. “But if you watch all the episodes  we don’t really mention politics as much as we did in the pilot.”Mr. Werner pointed out that “Roseanne” will deal with the opioid epidemic and immigration in its seven remaining episodes  adding that the president does not come up much as the show goes on.As a topical  working-class sitcom led by a Trump supporter  “Roseanne” is unique — for now. Its early ratings success is likely to spur copycats in Hollywood  which is not known for its high percentage of conservatives.“Money is the ideology of Hollywood ” said Martin Kaplan  director of the Norman Lear Center for media and society at the University of Southern California. “I can’t imagine an executive who would turn down something for ideological reasons that they think has a chance to do a good number.”A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Network Rediscovers Trump Country With Reboot of ‘Roseanne’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAYA SALAM and MATTHEW HAAGMARCH 29  2018
President Trump and his old friend David J. Pecker  whose company owns The National Enquirer  have long had a mutually beneficial relationship. Now that Mr. Trump is president  Mr. Pecker has showcased his access to him  including when he recently sought to do business with people in Saudi Arabia.Here are five times that Mr. Pecker and his company  American Media Inc.  protected  defended or championed Mr. Trump.Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  recently filed a lawsuit against American Media  saying she wants to be free to speak about an affair she says she had with Mr. Trump over a decade ago. She said she signed a legal agreement with the company in 2016 that prevented her from talking about her alleged relationship with Mr. Trump.In her lawsuit  Ms. McDougal alleged that Mr. Trump’s lawyer  Michael D. Cohen  was secretly involved when Mr. Pecker’s company sought to silence her by buying the rights to her story in August 2016 for $150 000 but never publishing it. In the tabloid industry  that move is known as a “catch and kill.”AdvertisementMr. Cohen and American Media have denied the allegations. Mr. Trump’s representatives deny that the affair happened.AdvertisementIn the run-up to the 2016 presidential election  Mr. Trump was one of 17 candidates who vied to be the Republican candidate  and none of his opponents were safe from ridicule in The Enquirer.In October 2015  a headline called Ben Carson a “bungling surgeon.” The article said he had potentially “butchered one patient’s brain.” A month later  an article called him a “disgraced doctor” with a “violent past.”In June of that year  an article claimed that Jeb Bush  the former Florida governor  had cheated on his wife  citing unnamed reports that linked Mr. Bush to a “Playboy bunny-turned-lawyer.”Hillary Clinton  the Democratic presidential nominee and a favorite target of Mr. Trump  took the brunt of the scorn. A September 2015 article  using information from “sources ” said the “desperate and deteriorating 67-year-old won’t make it to the White House — because she’ll be dead in six months.”In August 2016  she fired back at Mr. Trump and what she called “fringe media.” Mrs. Clinton said  “This is what happens when you treat The National Enquirer like gospel.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 2016 election is over  but the criticism of Mrs. Clinton has continued. In February 2018  an Enquirer cover story claimed she was part of a conspiracy: “Obama & Hillary Ordered F.B.I. to Spy on Trump!”For years  Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked his predecessor  Barack Obama  and The Enquirer is no different.In January  an Enquirer headline read  “Barack Obama’s Russian Spy Inside the White House.”In February 2017  days after Michael T. Flynn resigned as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser  the tabloid claimed that Mr. Obama had a secret plot to impeach Mr. Trump. And as recently as March 2017 the tabloid continued to claim that Mr. Obama  who was born in Hawaii  was foreign born  even though Mr. Trump had since let go of the false birther theory that he long promoted.AdvertisementThe National Enquirer and its parent company have not only helped the president by denigrating others  but also repeatedly praised Mr. Trump  his decisions and his character.In March 2016  for the first time in its 90 years  The Enquirer endorsed a candidate for president — Donald J. Trump.While Ms. McDougal and a pornographic-film star  Stephanie Clifford  who is known professionally as Stormy Daniels  have come forward and said they have had affairs with the president  The Enquirer recently ran a favorable cover that blared: “Donald & Melania Fight Back! Exposing the Lies  Leaks & Intimidation. How They’ll Crush Their Enemies!”Mr. Pecker visited the White House in July 2017 and took along with him a special guest  a French businessman who advises one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men. Through an Oval Office visit and at dinner with Mr. Trump  Mr. Pecker showcased his access to the president — and word got back to Saudi Arabia.Several months later  Mr. Pecker traveled to Saudi Arabia. In January  he sought Saudi investors to help bankroll a possible acquisition of Time magazine  according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. American Media disputed that. As Mohammed bin Salman  the crown prince of Saudi Arabia  arrived this month for a tour of the United States  Mr. Pecker’s company published a 97-page magazine about Saudi Arabia that glosses over troubling details about the kingdom.There is no mention of the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen  human rights concerns or the crown prince’s arrest last fall of many extended royals.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Ana SwansonCHICAGO — If North America were a factory  Union Pacific would be its biggest conveyor belt.Based in Omaha  the company operates the largest rail network on the continent  a conduit that provides us with cereal  lumber  car parts and pretty much everything that touches our lives. That makes the railroad a real-time barometer of the fluctuations in global trade — a physical manifestation of how President Trump’s agenda to remake the rules of commerce will play out.Roughly 40 percent of the goods that Union Pacific moves touch an international border at some point in their journey  putting the railroad at the center of the global tensions that have arisen as the administration prepares to impose tariffs on goods from China and steel and aluminum from around the world. Seventy percent of rail freight between the United States and Mexico travels on Union Pacific trains  meaning the outcome of the tense renegotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement will shape the company’s future.“At its guts  a railroad like Union Pacific is built on people consuming stuff  industry consuming stuff  and trade flows ” said Lance Fritz  Union Pacific’s chief executive. “When those are happening and growing  we thrive. And all of that potentially gets impacted by getting Nafta wrong or the United States exiting Nafta.”These global forces all converge outside Chicago  where six of the seven largest railroads operating in the United States meet  including Union Pacific  Norfolk Southern and Canadian National. Here  roughly 300 workers move containers of barbecue grills  soybeans and socks from trains to trucks. Some of those trucks head out on the nearby tangle of interstate highways for multiday trips across the country. Some drive for Rust Belt factories or nearby warehouses for Walmart and Dollar Tree.Union Pacific was created in 1862  when Abraham Lincoln ordered the company to open the American West by helping to build the first transcontinental railroad. Over the decades since  the company chiseled new rail lines out of impassable terrain and swallowed up its competitors. Today  the company’s trains run on tracks it owns throughout 23 states west of the Mississippi River  and on partner networks in the Eastern United States  Canada and Mexico.The company’s financial history is inextricably tied to the country’s economic ebbs and flows. Union Pacific saw its beef shipments fall in 2003  after an outbreak of mad cow disease in the United States prompted China to ban imports of American beef. In 2012  a drought shrank the company’s wheat shipments and its revenues from agriculture.In 1994  the introduction of Nafta slashed tariffs on products and encouraged companies to invest in supply chains stretching across borders — increasing rail traffic around North America. The year after Nafta went into effect  Mexico privatized its railroads  creating private commercial partners south of the border.In 1999  Union Pacific had $700 million in business going to and from Mexico. Today  that figure has ballooned to more than $2.2 billion  with goods like grain and auto parts going into Mexico and finished cars  avocados and televisions coming back.The company moves more than 100 carloads of beer from Mexico to the United States every day  with each carrying enough beer to provide an American consumer with a daily six-pack for 43 years.To satisfy a changing diet  Union Pacific is introducing more refrigerated cars to carry meat into Mexico. The company is also investing $550 million on a massive rail yard in Texas that will help serve as a conduit for cross-border trade.Now the fate of Nafta — and Union Pacific’s business — is up in the air. All three countries are locked in contentious talks. American trade negotiators have said they believe they are close to completing a deal  though Mr. Trump continues to threaten to withdraw from the pact.“Effectively  it’s factory North America  and the administration is threatening to build a wall in the middle of the factory ” said Emily Blanchard  an associate professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College who studies trade.Mr. Fritz has lobbied hard to preserve Nafta  submitting comments to the government about the pact’s importance  writing opinion pieces and meeting with members of both Congress and the Trump administration. The company is exposed to almost every change the president has proposed  like requiring more of an automobile to be made in the United States and weakening the systems for settling disputes between countries.“Capital investment is the lifeblood of an economy ” Mr. Fritz said. He added that the Trump administration’s proposals would be “the equivalent of killing foreign investment in our economies.”The railroad is also bracing for tariffs on steel and aluminum that went into effect March 23  as well as a new round of coming levies on products imported from China.The railroad could see business pick up if American mills start cranking out more metals as foreign competition ebbs — or it could face a decline from industries  like automobiles  that will see their steel and aluminum costs rise. If the Trump administration follows through on tariffs on Chinese products  the tariffs will raise costs and slow sales for a wide variety of goods on the shelves of Walmart and Target.And if China and other countries retaliate against these trade measures by making it more expensive for American companies to sell products like soybeans  pork and whiskey overseas  as they have threatened to  that  too  would mean less cargo for Union Pacific.The company expects its own costs to increase as a result of the tariffs. Union Pacific uses American steel in its railroad cars  locomotives and some of its tracks. But on its most heavily trafficked lines — like its main east-west lines that run from Omaha to San Francisco and California to Texas — it opts for more expensive  ultra-hard rail made by Japan’s Nippon Steel.While many American allies were granted exemptions from the steel tariffs  Japan so far has not. That Japanese steel  which Union Pacific said is not matched in the United States  is now subject to a 25 percent tariff when it enters the country. Union Pacific is planning to ask the government for a special exemption for the product.While Mr. Fritz said he understood the administration’s desire to ensure that trade is fair  he doesn’t believe tariffs are the answer.“In general  they’re going to raise the cost of production  or directly raise the cost to consumers ” he said. “So neither is a good thing for the economy.”Ana Swanson is a trade reporter in the Washington Bureau. She previously worked at The Washington Post  where she covered trade  the Fed and the economy.  @AnaSwansonAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy CHRISTINA CARONMARCH 31  2018
Gov. Jerry Brown of California on Friday pardoned five ex-convicts facing possible deportation  drawing criticism from President Trump and heightening continued tensions between Washington and California.The  five immigrants were among 56 pardons and 14 commutations Mr. Brown granted on Friday — Good Friday and the start of Passover — to those who have been out of custody for at least 10 years and have exhibited “exemplary behavior” after their convictions  the governor’s press office said.They included a United States military veteran  Sokha Chhan  a refugee from Cambodia who served nearly a year in jail for the misdemeanors of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant and threatening a crime with the intent to terrorize. Phann Pheach  another Cambodian refugee who was pardoned  served six months for possession of a controlled substance for sale and obstructing a police officer.Mr. Brown also granted pardons to Daniel Maher  who spent five years in prison after being convicted of kidnapping  robbery and using a firearm  and who is now the director of a recycling program in Berkeley  Calif.; Sergio Mena  who was sentenced in 2003 and put on probation for three years for possession of a controlled substance for sale; and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz  who served five months for vehicle theft.AdvertisementOn Saturday morning Mr. Trump tweeted a list of crimes that he linked to the five who were pardoned and asked  “Is this really what the great people of California want?”
            Governor Jerry “Moonbeam” Brown pardoned 5 criminal illegal aliens whose crimes include (1) Kidnapping and Robbery (2) Badly beating wife and threatening a crime with intent to terrorize (3) Dealing drugs. Is this really what the great people of California want? @FoxNews It was the latest discord between Mr. Trump and leaders in California  where lawmakers have been actively seeking to disrupt Mr. Trump’s policies — not only by passing immigration laws that run counter to the administration’s agenda  but also by expanding environmental protections  raising gasoline taxes to pay for highway construction  and resisting moves to weaken rules for greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards for automobiles.Advertisement“We will definitely not sit by idly as the Trump administration tries to deport immigrants  throw people off health care  ignore climate change and steal our water ” State Senator Scott Wiener  a Democrat  said in January. “It’s about playing defense to whatever the administration throws at us — but also offense in terms of continuing California’s push for progressive social change.”On Friday  the same day Mr. Brown announced the pardons  Mr. Trump declared April “Second Chance Month ” highlighting the need for ex-convicts to get an opportunity to become contributing members of society.“I am committed to advancing reform efforts to prevent crime  improve re-entry and reduce recidivism ” Mr. Trump said in a news release.Mr. Brown  who is serving the final 12 months of his second stint as governor  has granted 1 115 pardons and 51 commutations since taking office in 2011  Evan Westrup  the governor’s press secretary said on Saturday. It amounts to far more than his recent predecessors.Some of these cases involved immigrants who faced deportation or who had already been deported. An exact breakdown was not immediately available.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In December  Mr. Brown pardoned two men who came to the United States as children  after their families fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia  and who were scheduled to be deported for their crimes  The Sacramento Bee reported. Last year  he pardoned three veterans who had been deported to Mexico and in 2015  he pardoned a man who was fighting deportation after serving two decades for burglary and kidnapping  among other crimes.For ex-convict immigrants  deportation is a severe punishment that is often unwarranted  said Angelica Salas  executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights  which seeks to change California’s laws to help immigrants avoid deportation.Advertisement“We believe that deportation is an enhancement to their sentences that goes way too far ” she said. “They’ve actually paid their debt to society.”Immigration law is “so punitive  that it just does not forgive ” she added. “Most judges  their hands are tied behind their back ” she said  and the inability to have any discretion promotes large-scale deportation.Mr. Trump visited California in mid-March to inspect border wall prototypes designed to keep out undocumented immigrants. The trip came one week after Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued the state over three new immigration laws he called unconstitutional  saying they made it impossible for federal immigration officials to deport criminals who were born outside the United States.Mr. Brown  a Democrat  said at the time that Mr. Sessions was “basically going to war” with California.In Mr. Trump’s weekly address on Saturday he took another swipe at California  blaming so-called sanctuary cities for the opioid epidemic  and referring to California as a “sanctuary state” that has become a hub for transporting heroin across the southern border. He also admonished Oakland’s mayor for helping “criminal aliens” elude the authorities because of the city’s “dangerous sanctuary policies.”“Sanctuary cities put innocent Americans at the mercy of hardened criminals and heartless drug dealers ” Mr. Trump added. “These are bad people.”That argument — that immigrants bring crime to America — has influenced many of the Trump administration’s policies on immigration. Studies have shown  however  that immigration does not drive crime. According to one recent analysis  a large-scale collaboration by four universities  the areas with the largest increases in immigrants all had lower levels of crime in 2016 than in 1980.“The data is crystal clear that immigrants do not lead to an increase in crime ” said Ali Noorani  executive director of the National Immigration Forum. “I think opponents to immigration like to cherry-pick egregious cases where the individual does not belong in the U.S. and therefore marginalize an entire community.”A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Assails Pardons  Given to 5 Immigrants By California Governor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement

      By GAIL COLLINS

MARCH 30  2018

Besides the Easter holiday  this weekend we’re also celebrating April Fools’ Day  an excellent reminder that the country is now a quarter of the way through the second year of the Donald Trump presidency.Hang in there  people! To see if you’ve been paying attention  here’s a quiz.To start off the new year  Trump boasted that compared with North Korea’s leader  he had …“Much smarter” foreign policy advisers.A “much bigger” nuclear button.“Much taller” friends in professional basketball.In her much-watched TV interview  Stormy Daniels said she whacked Donald Trump on the rear end after he …Told her he wanted to play a sex game where she was Vladimir Putin.Showed her a magazine with his picture on the cover.Said she reminded him of “a couple of my wives.”The White House physician  Ronny Jackson  announced that Trump had passed a mental cognition test in which he correctly identified animals and drew hands on a clock. Jackson also told reporters that in conversations with his patient  he learned that the president is …“Very sharp.”“Stupendously self-obsessed.”“Just great at picking out the rhino.”This week  Trump appointed Jackson to be …The first White House physician-chef  charged with perfecting a new low-calorie version of fried chicken and chocolate milkshakes.Secretary of the second-largest agency in the entire United States government.House doctor at Mar-a-Lago.Rex Tillerson knew he was on the way out as secretary of state when John Kelly called to warn him that “you may get a …“Tweet.”“Dead fish.”“Blank card on National Secretary Day.”H. R. McMaster was forced out of his job as national security adviser. His replacement  John Bolton  still thinks …It was a good idea to invade Iraq.It was a good idea to buy real estate in 2008.Trump likes his mustache.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos made news with a CBS interview in which she said …“I have no earthly idea what I’m doing here.”“I still think having guns in the schools to protect against bears is a smart call.”“I have not intentionally visited schools that are underperforming.”Scott Pruitt  head of the Environmental Protection Agency  said he needs to fly first class because of the danger of …Angry environmentalists.Missing a chance to shake hands with the pilots.Leg cramps in coach.The head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention resigned after Politico revealed she …Had a disease.Bought shares in a tobacco company shortly after she took office.Was taking bets on who got fired next.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee shortly after the president made it clear he wished there were more immigrants from places like Norway and fewer from places like Africa. In her testimony  she said she did not really know …Whether Africa was a continent.If Norwegians were generally white.What she was doing there. Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing are …Lawyers Donald Trump announced he was hiring last week and then dropped like a pair of wet socks.Olympic silver medalists starring in a new reality show  “So You Think You Can Ice Dance.”Owners of a dancing squirrel whose video went viral.When the Trump administration opened up massive amounts of the nation’s coast to offshore drilling  it exempted Florida because  officials explained  Florida is …“Where Mar-a-Lago is.”“Where that big Senate race is.”“Unique.”Donald Jr. recently made news when he …Took his kids to the circus and shot the elephant.Broke up with his wife and got a permit to carry a concealed weapon in Pennsylvania.Tried out for a roller derby team.Meanwhile  Eric Trump …Bragged on Twitter that he was an answer to a “Jeopardy” question.Was named head of a new Trump organization dedicated to bringing “luxury hotel life to Papua New Guinea.”Wrote a tell-all autobiography titled “Dad Actually Likes Me Best.”AdvertisementAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  8:24 P.M. E.D.T.
LOS ANGELES —  President Donald Trump blasted California Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday for his pardon of five ex-convicts facing deportation  including two who fled the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia with their families four decades ago.In a tweet   Trump referred to Brown as "Moonbeam " referencing a nickname a newspaper columnist coined for him in the 1970s. Trump then listed the ex-convicts' crimes before they were pardoned Friday. They include misdemeanor domestic violence  drug possession  and kidnapping and robbery.Trump wrote: "Is this really what the great people of California want?"A spokesman for Brown responded to a request for comment with more information about the five men but did not directly address Trump's criticism.In a news release about the pardons on Friday  the governor's office said that "those granted pardons all completed their sentences years ago and the majority were convicted of drug-related or other non-violent crimes."Advertisement"Pardons are not granted unless they are earned " the governor's office said.Brown's pardons marked the third time the Democrat has intervened on behalf of immigrants who were deported or faced deportation over convictions. Brown has accused the Trump administration of "basically going to war" with California over immigration policy.AdvertisementBrown's pardons don't automatically stop deportation proceedings  but eliminate the convictions on which authorities based their deportation.Trump has been criticized for his own pardon  that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio  who was convicted last year of a misdemeanor contempt charge for flouting the courts in carrying out his signature immigration patrols.Trump's pardon spared Arpaio from a possible jail sentence. The 85-year-old longtime lawman announced a run for Senate in January.Those pardoned Friday by Brown included Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach  who face deportation to Cambodia  a country ruled in the 1970s by the genocidal Khmer Rouge. Chhan was convicted of two counts of misdemeanor domestic violence in 2002 and served about a year in jail.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Pheach was convicted of possessing drugs and obstructing a police officer in 2005 and served six months in jail. His wife said he is in federal custody.Also pardoned was Daniel Maher  who served five years in prison stemming from the 1994 armed robbery of a San Jose auto parts store. He was convicted of kidnapping  robbery and being a felon in possession of a firearm in the case.Maher is facing deportation to China  where he has never lived. Maher is from Macau  which became part of China after his family immigrated to California when he was 3.Also pardoned while facing deportation were Daniel Mena and Francisco Acevedo Alaniz. Mena served three years of probation after being convicted of possessing illegal drugs in 2003. Alaniz served five months in prison for a 1997 car theft conviction.AdvertisementThe governor is a former Jesuit seminarian and traditionally issues pardons close to major Christian holidays. Easter falls on Sunday.California's longest-serving governor has now issued 1 519 pardons  including 404 during his first two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983.___Associated Press writer Janie Har contributed to this report from San Francisco. Elias reported from San Francisco.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  4:09 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  Spring break couldn't have come at a better time for Melania Trump.With fresh details spilling into the headlines daily about how Donald Trump allegedly cheated on her early in their marriage  the former model escaped the intense glare by spending the past week at the family's estate in Palm Beach  Florida  with their 12-year-old son  Barron.But even then  there was no perfect refuge from the attention to recent legal activity related to the president's past conduct with women.On Mrs. Trump's first full day away  when the president also was at their Mar-a-Lago estate  Trump had dinner not with her but with attorney Michael Cohen — who paid porn actress Stormy Daniels $130 000 in 2016 to keep her from going public with her story of a 2006 tryst with Trump. The Trumps did dine together on Thursday night after the president returned to Florida  with boxing promoter Don King stopping by to chat.Some say the first lady should exit her 13-year union with Trump  much like Hillary Clinton was urged to do after President Bill Clinton's affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky became public in the late 1990s.Advertisement"Melania should do for this generation of girls what Hillary Clinton did not do for mine and leave her jerk of a husband " conservative commentator S.E. Cupp wrote in an opinion piece that recently was splashed across the front page of the New York Daily News — one of Trump's hometown newspapers — with the headline "Dump Trump!"AdvertisementTrump himself recently joked about the possibility of his wife leaving him. She was seated at the head table at a Washington dinner last month where the president  in a speech that traditionally pokes at friends and adversaries  addressed the heavy staff churn at the White House."Now the question everyone keeps asking is  'Who's going to be the next to leave? Steve Miller or Melania?'" he said  referring to policy adviser Stephen Miller. "That is terrible  honey  but you love me  right?"A Marist-McClatchy Poll in February found the public divided on the issue. Forty-three percent said the first lady should stay married to Trump  34 percent said she should leave her husband and 23 percent weren't sure what she should do.Through it all  Mrs. Trump has kept a steely silence on claims by Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal that they had sexual relationships with Trump that began in 2006 just after the future first lady gave birth.Stephanie Grisham  a spokeswoman for Mrs. Trump  responded to questions about Daniels and McDougal by saying the first lady is "focused on being a mom" and spent the break working on future projects  including Monday's annual White House Easter Egg Roll and the coming state visit of French President Emmanuel Macron on April 24.Mrs. Trump kept up an everything's-normal Twitter feed during the week  posting about her recent participation in the State Department's courage awards  a White House discussion she had convened on cyberbullying  an upcoming opioids exhibit near the White House  White House garden tours and her surprise visit to a Florida hospital Thursday to deliver Easter baskets to young patients.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.She is silent now on her husband's dealings with other women  but has traversed this awkward terrain before."People think and talk about me like  'Oh Melania  Oh poor Melania '" she told CNN in a 2016 interview. "Don't feel sorry for me. I can handle everything."AdvertisementShe gave that interview after Trump was heard on a decade-old audiotape describing how he had grabbed women by their genitals and kissed them without permission. Trump at the time also faced accusations of sexual misconduct from more than a dozen women. He has called the women's charges false  and said he was engaging in "locker-room talk" on the tape.Some fault Mrs. Trump for making the "politically freighted choice" of going ahead with what the White House said is her traditional spring break getaway.Iowa State University history professor Stacy Cordery said most people will forgive an erring man when his wife stands by him. But "we don't see any evidence of her standing by him in that way. Even though she's an extremely private person  she could still appear at his side  but she's choosing not to " added Cordery  a first lady scholar.The allegations don't appear to have hurt Trump politically. The White House often notes that Trump was elected even though voters knew about sexual misconduct allegations against him. Trump's approval rating  meanwhile  is up 7 points since last month to 42 percent  according to a new poll by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.Friends say the first lady  who met Trump while his divorce from his second wife was being finalized  can handle what's coming at her."The first lady is very strong. She's  unfortunately  used to attacks of fake news " said Paolo Zampolli  her friend and former modeling agent.___Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.______This story has been corrected to show that the first lady met  not married  Trump while his divorce was being finalized.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  1:14 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump launched his second attack in a week on Amazon.com Inc on Saturday  accusing the world's biggest online retailer of getting unfairly cheap rates from the U.S. Postal Service and not paying enough tax.Trump's comments on Twitter reiterated criticisms he made on Thursday about the company. He may have been prompted by a report from news website Axios saying he was obsessed with Amazon and considering ways to rein in the company's power  possibly with federal antitrust or competition laws.Investor concerns about regulatory action sent Amazon shares down 3.3 percent over Wednesday and Thursday  knocking $24 billion off the company's market value."While we are on the subject  it is reported that the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars " Trump tweeted on Saturday.AdvertisementA Citigroup analysis last year showed that if the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) reallocated costs to account for the growing volume of packages it delivers  it would cost $1.46 more to deliver each package. Federal regulators  which review contracts made by USPS  have not raised any issues with the terms of its contract with Amazon.Advertisement"If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon’s shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion' " Trump tweeted  although it was not clear what report he was citing. "This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A White House spokeswoman said on Thursday the administration has no Amazon-related action at this time.Trump also accused the Washington Post  owned privately by Amazon Chief Executive and founder Jeff Bezos  of being a "lobbyist" for Amazon.The newspaper  a frequent target of Trump's ire  won a Pulitzer Prize last year for its critical investigation of Trump's donations to charities.Amazon declined comment. The Washington Post did not immediately reply to a request for comment.(Reporting by Bill Rigby; Editing by Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  4:27 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump hailed the start of his long-sought U.S.-Mexico border wall this past week  proudly tweeting photos of the "WALL!" Actually  no new work got underway. The photos showed the continuation of an old project to replace 2 miles of existing barrier.And on Saturday  he ripped Amazon with a shaky claim that its contract with the post office is a "scam."Trump and his officials departed from reality on a variety of subjects in recent days: the census  Amazon's practices and the makeup of the Supreme Court among them. Here's a look at some statements and their veracity:TRUMP: "Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL!" — tweet Wednesday  showing photos of workers building a fence.TRUMP:  "We're going to be starting work  literally  on Monday  on not only some new wall -- not enough  but we're working that very quickly -- but also fixing existing walls and existing acceptable fences." — Trump  speaking the previous week after signing a bill financing the government.AdvertisementTHE FACTS: Trump's wrong. No new work began on Monday or any other time this past week. And the photos Trump tweeted were misleading. They showed work that's been going on for more than a month on a small border wall replacement project in Calexico  California  that has nothing to do with the federal budget he signed into law last week.AdvertisementThe Calexico project that began Feb. 21 to replace a little more than 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) of border wall was financed during the 2017 budget year. A barrier built in the 1990s mainly from recycled metal scraps is being torn down and replaced with bollard-style barriers that are 30 feet (9.1 meters) high.Ronald D. Vitiello  acting deputy commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection  defended the president's statements  saying Friday "there's construction" underway.___TRUMP: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!" — tweet Saturday.TRUMP: "I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others  they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments  use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.)  and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!" — tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is misrepresenting Amazon's record on taxes  the U.S. Postal Service's financial situation and the contract that has the post office deliver some Amazon orders. Federal regulators have found that contract to be profitable for the Postal Service.People who buy products sold by Amazon pay sales tax in all states that have a sales tax. Not all third-party vendors using Amazon collect it  however.As for the post office  package delivery has been a bright spot for a service that's lost money for 11 straight years. The losses are mostly due to pension and health care costs — not the business deal for the Postal Service to deliver packages for Amazon. Boosted by e-commerce  the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages  but that hasn't been enough to offset declines in first-class letters and marketing mail  which together make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.AdvertisementWhile the Postal Service's losses can't be attributed to its package business  Trump's claim that it could get more bang for its buck may not be entirely far-fetched. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup concluded that the Postal Service was charging below-market rates as a whole for parcels.  The post office does not use taxpayer money for its operations.Trump is upset about Amazon because its owner  Jeff Bezos  owns The Washington Post  one of the targets of his "fake news" tweets.___TRUMP: "Because of the $700 & $716 Billion Dollars gotten to rebuild our Military  many jobs are created and our Military is again rich. Building a great Border Wall  with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country  is all about National Defense. Build WALL through M!" — tweets Sunday and Monday.THE FACTS: Trump is floating the idea of using "M'' — the Pentagon's military budget — to pay for his wall with Mexico. Such a move would almost certainly require approval from Congress and there's plenty of reason to be skeptical about the notion of diverting military money for this purpose.Only Congress has the power under the Constitution to determine federal appropriations  leaving the Trump administration little authority to shift money without lawmakers' approval.Pentagon spokesman Chris Sherwood referred all questions on the wall to the White House. Spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to reveal specifics  but said Trump would work with the White House counsel to make sure any action taken was within his executive authority.___DAVID SHULKIN  citing reasons Trump fired him as Veterans Affairs secretary:  "I have been falsely accused of things by people who wanted me out of the way. But despite these politically based attacks on me and my family's character  I am proud of my record and know that I acted with the utmost integrity." — op-ed Thursday in The New York Times.THE FACTS: His statement that he and his family were subjected to politically based attacks is disingenuous  though politics contributed to his dismissal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.White House support for Shulkin eroded after a blistering report in February by VA's internal watchdog  a non-partisan office. The inspector general's office concluded that he had violated ethics rules by accepting free Wimbledon tennis tickets. The inspector general also said Shulkin's chief of staff had doctored emails to justify bringing the secretary's wife to Europe with him at taxpayer expense.AdvertisementIt is true  though  that Shulkin had encountered resistance from about a half-dozen political appointees at the VA and White House who rebelled against him. In an extraordinary telephone call  John Ullyot  a top communications aide  and VA spokesman Curt Cashour asked the Republican staff director of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to push for Shulkin's removal after the release of the inspector general's report. The staff director declined to do so.  Those political appointees were not involved in drafting the inspector general's report.Shulkin expressed regret for the "distractions" caused by the report and agreed to pay more than $4 000 to cover the costs of his wife's coach airfare and the Wimbledon tickets. He continues to insist he did nothing wrong and point to what his staff did in doctoring his emails as a "mistake."___TRUMP: "THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!" — tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: As a basics civics lesson  Trump's tweet falls short. The Supreme Court is the unelected branch of government and no party can "hold" it. That said  both parties try to win confirmation of justices who are considered likely to vote the way they want.Republican-nominated justices have formed a majority of the Supreme Court for nearly 50 years. The five more conservative justices were appointed by Republicans while the four more liberal justices were Democratic nominees.Republicans would have the opportunity to cement ideological balance in their favor if Justice Anthony Kennedy — the most moderate of the conservatives — or one of the older and more liberal justices were to retire with Trump in office and Republicans in control of the Senate.Trump was citing retired Justice John Paul Stevens  who called in a New York Times article for repeal of the Second Amendment to allow for gun control legislation. Democratic leaders are not proposing repeal of the amendment  as Trump implies. Also noteworthy: Stevens was nominated by a Republican president  Gerald Ford.___WHITE HOUSE SPOKESWOMAN SARAH SANDERS  on the Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census: "This is a question that's been included in every census since 1965 with the exception of 2010  when it was removed. ... And again  this is something that has been part of the census for decades and something that the Department of Commerce felt strongly needed to be included again." — press briefing Tuesday.AdvertisementCOMMERCE DEPARTMENT: "Between 1820 and 1950  almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form." — statement on Monday.THE FACTS: Sanders is incorrect. The Commerce Department statement is also problematic. Both are trying to play down the risk of a severe undercount of the population if many immigrants  intimidated by the citizenship question  refuse to participate.The Census Bureau hasn't included a citizenship question in its once-a-decade survey sent to all U.S. households since 1950  before the Civil Rights era and passage of a 1965 law designed to help ensure minority groups in the count are fully represented.The nation's count is based on the total resident population — both citizens and noncitizens — and used to determine how many U.S. representatives each state gets in the U.S. House.The citizenship question was not in the 1960 census  according to a copy of the form posted on the Census Bureau website  and no census was held in 1965.From 1970 to 2000  the question was included only in the long-form section of the census survey  sent to a portion of U.S. households. After 2000  the question has been asked on the Census Bureau's American Community Survey  a separate poll designed to replace the census long form and sent only to a sample of U.S. households.The Commerce Department's assertion that the citizenship question was asked on "almost" every decennial census between 1820 and 1950 also pushes the limits of reality. According to the Census Bureau  the question wasn't asked in four of those censuses —1840  1850  1860 or 1880.Between 1820 and 1950  a total of 14 censuses were held. That means more than 1 in 4 surveys during that time period lacked the citizenship question.Not exactly "almost."___Associated Press writers Mark Sherman and Cal Woodward in Washington and Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.Advertisement___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apne.ws/2kbx8bdWe’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  8:08 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday froze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria as his administration reassesses Washington's role in the long-drawn conflict there  the Wall Street Journal reported  citing officials.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report noting that Washington had recently committed an additional $200 million to support early recovery efforts in Syria  the Journal reported.The decision is in line with Trump's declaration on Thursday when he said that America would exit Syria  according to officials  the Journal reported.An additional aid of $200 million was pledged by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February in Kuwait at a meeting of the global coalition against Islamic State.(Reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; Editing by Sandra Maler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  8:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is asking the Supreme Court to dismiss a case about emails the government wants as part of a drug trafficking investigation.In a motion Friday  the administration says the Cloud Act's passage as part of last week's spending bill resolves the case.The legislation updated a 32-year-old law governing how authorities can get electronic communications held by technology companies. The issue was whether Microsoft had to turn over emails stored on its server in Ireland.The act makes clear the government can obtain the emails. The government says it got a new warrant for them Friday.The administration says the justices should throw out an appeals court ruling declaring that emails stored abroad are beyond the government's reach and direct a lower court to dismiss the case.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 31  2018  3:12 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump is again attacking online retailer Amazon.com  calling its business deal with the U.S. Postal Service to deliver packages a money-losing agreement that hurts U.S. taxpayers. Federal regulators  however  have found the contract with Amazon to be profitable.In tweets Saturday  Trump said "the U.S. Post Office will lose $1.50 on average for each package it delivers for Amazon. That amounts to Billions of Dollars."He added: "If the P.O. 'increased its parcel rates  Amazon's shipping costs would rise by $2.6 Billion.' This Post Office scam must stop. Amazon must pay real costs (and taxes) now!"Amazon has been a consistent recipient of Trump's ire. He is sore because its founder  Jeff Bezos  owns The Washington Post  which Trump has labeled "fake news" after the newspaper reported unfavorable developments during his campaign and presidency.AdvertisementTrump made the link himself in Saturday's tweets  accusing Amazon of using the "Fake Washington Post" as a lobbyist. The Post and Bezos have responded to Trump's lobbyist claims in the past by declaring that Bezos is not involved in any journalistic decisions at the paper. Amazon.com Inc. and The Washington Post declined to comment Saturday.AdvertisementAmazon lives and dies by shipping  and an increase in the rates it pays could certainly do some damage. Amazon sends packages via the post office  FedEx  UPS and other services.But while the U.S. Postal Service has lost money for 11 years  package delivery — which has been a bright spot for the service — is not the reason.Boosted by e-commerce  the Postal Service has enjoyed double-digit increases in revenue from delivering packages  but that hasn't been enough to offset pension and health care costs as well as declines in first-class letters and marketing mail. Together  letters and marketing mail make up more than two-thirds of postal revenue.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In arguing that the Postal Service is losing money on delivering packages for Amazon  Trump appears to be citing some Wall Street analyses that argue the Postal Service's formula for calculating its costs is outdated. A 2017 analysis by Citigroup did conclude that the Postal Service was charging below market rates as a whole on parcels. Still  federal regulators have reviewed the Amazon contract with the Postal Service each year and determined it to be profitable.A spokesman for the U.S. Postal Service declined to comment. An independent agency  it does not use taxpayer money for its operations.The post office does not break down what is driving its growth  but online ordering from retailers  particularly Amazon.com  has revolutionized the way goods are bought and delivered. The Postal Service reached new highs last year in holiday package delivery  with more than 850 million U.S. parcels delivered from Thanksgiving to New Year's Eve  according to figures compiled by industry tracker ShipMatrix Inc.The Postal Service says it set a record on Dec. 18 when more than 37 million packages were delivered  the most in a single day in its more than 240 year history.Amazon has taken some steps toward becoming more self-reliant in shipping. Last year  it announced it would build a worldwide air cargo hub in Kentucky  about 13 miles southwest of Cincinnati.___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 31  2018  5:56 A.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria  two senior administration officials said on Friday  a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria  according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilise areas recaptured from Islamic State  the paper said.AdvertisementThe funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.AdvertisementThe decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield  Ohio  on Thursday  where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach  Florida  estate."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon " Trump said on Thursday  based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon  we're coming out " Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country  where we belong  where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria  U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump still needs to be convinced of that  said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.AdvertisementTrump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking towards having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that " one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete  however  the official added.The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward  the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out " the official said. About 2 000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan  ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton  named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton  John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio   Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »