AdvertisementBy IAN AUSTENMARCH 30  2018
Christopher Wylie  the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower  brought Canada into a story that’s drawn intense scrutiny to Facebook this week. And it’s not just because he’s from Victoria  British Columbia.After focusing close attention on the social network with the disclosure that Cambridge used personal data from millions of the social media site’s users without permission to help Donald J. Trump’s election campaign  Mr. Wylie brought a company from his hometown  Aggregate IQ  into the fray this week during testimony before Britain’s Parliament.In his testimony  Mr. Wylie said that Aggregrate  a subsidiary of Cambridge Analytica’s parent  drew on Cambridge’s Facebook data to sway social media opinion in favor of the Leave side in the 2016 British referendum on the European Union vote  and he repeated claims that the Canadian company was used to avoid British campaign spending limits. (The company has denied the claims.)Attention inevitably turned to Mr. Wylie’s activities in Canada. When he was 19  Mr. Wylie worked briefly in the office of Michael Ignatieff  then the Liberal leader. Then early in 2016  when Mr. Trump’s victory was not being widely predicted  Mr. Wylie  through a company called Eunoia Technologies  was given a 100 000 Canadian dollar contract by the Liberal Caucus Research Bureau. Like all of the political parties’ research shops  the bureau is separate from the party’s other operations and is funded by Parliament.Melissa Cotton  the bureau’s managing director  said in a statement that Mr. Wylie did not have access to the party’s data and that he worked on projects that appeared to have involved monitoring social media  identifying issues and analyzing how Liberal members communicate with voters.Advertisement“Preliminary work was done by Eunoia Technologies but after seeing what was offered  Liberal Caucus Research Bureau decided not to move forward.” Ms. Cotton said  without explaining why it cut ties.AdvertisementMr. Wylie’s time in Ottawa  however  brought to light something that most people have overlooked. Unlike businesses and the federal government itself  federal political parties aren’t subject to Canada’s internet privacy and data protection laws.Some of those laws date to the 1980s and the federal privacy commissioner  among others  has been calling for a 21st century update. But while Canada lags behind Europe in this area  it’s still well ahead of the United States.The political party exemption came about in part because of a parliamentary tradition of not giving bureaucrats or outside bodies control over a party’s affairs. I called Michael Pal  an assistant law professor at the University of Ottawa who studies election laws and related issues like voter suppression  and asked if it’s time for a change.“Every other sector is covered by privacy laws but political parties ” he said. “They are all using data so I don’t think there is a good argument about why they should be under privacy rules.”As for concerns about encroaching on Parliament  Professor Pal isn’t buying that either. He noted that parties were already “heavily regulated” through Elections Canada and election fund-raising laws.So what’s a Facebook user to do now? My colleague Brian X. Chen  who writes about consumer technology  has offered some guidance on minimizing privacy risks on Facebook  although his overall take on the situation facing Facebook users is a little discouraging:“What  if anything  can they do to protect their data connected to the social network?Here’s the harsh truth: Not much  short of ceasing to browse the web entirely or deleting your Facebook account.”What about deleting old Facebook and Twitter posts? Brian tried it and found that his “delete-everything approach was probably not worth most people’s time. And even after all that time  my Facebook timeline was still decorated with posts that my friends had published about me — including photos from my 21st birthday (need I say more?) — because that content was not mine to delete.”Every week  receive a handpicked selection of news and opinion plus exclusive commentary from New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.That  of course  leaves the option of quitting social media. And that’s what I’m interested in hearing about from you. Have the last couple of weeks turned your mind toward leaving Facebook or other social media sites? If you’re inclined  do you think it’s possible to leave? And if you leave  what will you lose and what will you gain? Please send your thoughts to nytcanada@nytimes.com.AdvertisementRead: How Trump Consultants Exploited the Facebook Data of MillionsRead: Cambridge Analytica Whistle-Blower Contends Data-Mining Swung Brexit VoteRead: How to Protect Yourself (and Your Friends) on FacebookRead: Want to Purge Your Social Media Timelines? Can You Spare a Few Hours?About a year ago  I wrote about how the house where the Dionne quintuplets were born faced an uncertain future. The birth  and survival  of the quints at the height of the Great Depression was both a global sensation and a tale of grave injustice. The girls were taken from their family and made wards of the province of Ontario  ostensibly to protect them from exploitation. But the government turned around and exhibited almost like zoo animals. Millions of visitors viewed them from a special gallery.Other injustices and misfortune followed the five through their lives. The decision by the City of North Bay to turn over the log house to a village without the obvious means to maintain or restore it looked like the latest one.But much has changed in the past year. After a public campaign  North Bay reversed its decision  and the house has been moved to downtown where it will become a museum.And this week  The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada designated the birth of the quints an event of national historical significance.Carlo Tarini  a friend who acts as the family’s spokesman  told me this week that Annette and Cécile  the two surviving sisters  are doing well  although Cécile was hospitalized for a time in January because of pneumonia.“In the pre-internet decades of the 30s and 40s  the worldwide fascination they sparked as children brings shade to the Kardashian kids popularity ” Mr. Tarini wrote in an email.AdvertisementRead: 2 Survivors of Canada’s First Quintuplet Clan Reluctantly Re-emerge—The Protestant churches involved in a system that took Indigenous children away from their families to boarding schools apologized for their role in during the 1990s. While the Truth and Reconciliation Commission has asked Pope Francis to follow suit  he rejected the idea.—Alexandre Bissonnette  who killed six men at a mosque in Quebec City last year  pleaded guilty to first degree murder this week. While the move brought relief to survivors and the families of victims  the lack of a trial means that questions about his transformation from university student to killer may go unanswered.—Rusty Staub  le Grand Orange to Montrealers  has died at the age of 73. During his time with the Montreal Expos  Mr. Staub endeared himself to Quebecers on the field.—Peter Munk  who created one of Canada’s biggest business fiascos at Clairtone and then rebounded to build the world’s largest gold mining company  has died at the age of 90 in Toronto.An earlier version of a web summary with this article misstated the name of the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower. He is Christopher Wylie  not Andrew Wylie.A native of Windsor  Ontario  Ian Austen was educated in Toronto  lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so  please subscribe to the email newsletter version.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  5:00 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The author of a provocative Facebook memo declaring that growth is justified even if it costs lives says he doesn't actually agree with the memo and wrote it to provoke debate.The 2016 internal memo  titled "The Ugly " was leaked to BuzzFeed this week. In it  Facebook executive Andrew Bosworth said "all the work we do in growth is justified " even if it costs people their lives because they are exposed to bullies or die in a terrorist attack coordinated through Facebook.Bosworth  who goes by "Boz " has been at Facebook since 2006 and serves as the company's vice president in charge of virtual- and augmented-reality efforts. Previously  he was vice president of ads and helped create Facebook features such as Messenger  its news feed and groups.Bosworth tweeted Thursday that the memo was one of the most unpopular things he's written internally  and "the ensuing debate helped shape our tools for the better."AdvertisementIn a statement to BuzzFeed that Facebook confirmed  CEO Mark Zuckerberg called Bosworth a "talented leader who says many provocative things " but added the memo was something "that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."We've never believed the ends justify the means " Zuckerberg said in the statement. "We recognize that connecting people isn't enough by itself. We also need to work to bring people closer together. We changed our whole mission and company focus to reflect this last year."Facebook is grappling with an unprecedented crisis over allegations that Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  obtained data of tens of millions of users without their permission with the intent of swaying elections. That followed a string of scandals  including revelations that Russia used its platform to meddle in U.S. elections.AdvertisementFacebook is facing new questions about its practice of collecting call and text histories from Android devices. The company has not provided details on why it needed this data or what it did with it  saying only that it was used to improve people's experience on Facebook. It's not clear how the data collection made Facebook users' experience better on Android devices when Facebook couldn't get the same data from iPhones.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  6:03 P.M. E.D.T.
MENLO PARK  Calif. —  "We've made a bunch of mistakes." ''Everyone needs complete control over who they share with at all times." ''Not one day goes by when I don't think about what it means for us to be the stewards of this community and their trust."Sound familiar? It's Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg addressing a major privacy breach — seven years ago .Lawmakers in many countries may be focused on Cambridge Analytica's alleged improper use of Facebook data  but the social network's privacy problems go back more than a decade. Here are some of the company's most notable missteps and promises around privacy.2007The social media darling unveils its Facebook Platform to great fanfare. Zuckerberg says app developers can now access the web of connections between users and their friends  a set of connections Facebook calls the "social graph."Advertisement"The social graph is changing the way the world works " he says .That November  Facebook launches Beacon   which shares what users are doing on other websites with their Facebook friends. Many users find it intrusive and difficult to disable. Massachusetts resident Sean Lane buys his wife a diamond ring for Christmas on Overstock.com  but Facebook ruins the surprise   an incident leading to a class-action lawsuit.AdvertisementIn December  Zuckerberg apologizes and enables users to shut off Beacon. "I know we can do better " he says .2008Facebook launches Facebook Connect   aiming to correct Beacon's mistakes by requiring users to take deliberate action before they share activity from other websites when logged in using Facebook. More than 100 websites use the tool at launch  including CNN and TripAdvisor.2009Facebook announces "privacy improvements" after a yearlong review by Canada's Office of the Privacy Commissioner found that it geared its default privacy settings toward openness  failed to inform users their data would be used to serve ads  and leaked data to third party developers  including when their friends used apps. Facebook vows to encourage "users to review their privacy settings" but does not agree to all the recommendations.Beacon is officially shut down  settling Lane's class action lawsuit.The American Civil Liberties Union warns people that Facebook's default settings mean that when a friend uses an app or takes a quiz  the quiz- or app-maker can peer into your profile  even if you've made it private.2010App-makers exhibit a sophisticated grasp of data they can scoop from Facebook's social graph.The Wall Street Journal reports that many popular apps are transmitting personalized Facebook data to dozens of advertising and internet companies  among them  Zynga's breakout game FarmVille. Facebook responds by shutting down some apps.Prior to the Journal report  Facebook says it has redesigned its privacy tools  giving its 400 million users "the power to control exactly who can see the information and content they share.2011The Federal Trade Commission reaches a consent decree with Facebook after an investigation of its broken privacy promises to consumers.AdvertisementThe FTC alleges  among other things  that:—Facebook made its users' friend lists public in December 2009  even if they had been set to private  without telling them.—Even if users limited data sharing to "friends only " data was actually shared with third party apps that friends used.—Facebook failed to verify the security of apps it put on a "verified apps" list.—Facebook promised not to share personal information with advertisers  but did.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook promises to submit to a privacy audit every two years for the next 20 years  and Zuckerberg owns up to mistakes.2012Facebook introduces new methods to help advertisers reach people in ways "that protect your privacy " including an encryption tool called Custom Audiences that lets marketers match the email addresses of sales leads to the addresses that Facebook users used to set up their accounts.Facebook also rolls out new privacy tools aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls. Among other things  it narrows the scope of app permissions so they don't suck in as much user data automatically.2013Facebook shares two-year-old anonymized data on billions of friendships between countries with Cambridge researcher Aleksandr Kogan and co-authors a research paper with him (published in 2015).Kogan creates a quiz app  installed by around 300 000 people   giving him access to tens of millions of their friends' data.2014Facebook says it dramatically limits the access apps have to friend data  preventing the type of data scoop Kogan and others were capable of. It also requires developers to get approval from Facebook before accessing sensitive data.Advertisement2015Facebook says it learns from Guardian journalists that Kogan has shared data with Cambridge Analytica in violation of its policies. It bans the app and asks Kogan and Cambridge Analytica to certify they had deleted the data.It rolls out "Security Checkup  " a new tool aimed at simplifying its convoluted and confusing privacy controls.2017Facebook introduces "Privacy Basics  " a Frequently Asked Questions site aimed at simplifying its privacy controls.2018Facebook says it learns from The Guardian and other media outlets that Cambridge Analytica did not delete improperly obtained Facebook data and suspends the company  Kogan  and whistleblower Christopher Wylie from its service.Zuckerberg tells CNN that "I'm really sorry that this happened." He promises to audit app makers that gathered massive amounts of data prior to 2014 and to notify affected users. Amid calls for investigations in the U.S. and U.K.  the FTC begins investigating whether Facebook broke its 2011 consent decree."Our responsibility now is to make sure that this doesn't happen again " Zuckerberg says.Facebook redesigns its privacy settings menu on mobile devices and says in a blog post  "It's time to make our privacy tools easier to find."___We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  10:44 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  A Facebook Inc executive said in an internal memo in 2016 that the social media company needed to pursue adding users above all else  BuzzFeed News reported on Thursday  prompting  disavowals from the executive and Facebook Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg.The memo from Andrew Bosworth  a Facebook vice president  had not been previously reported as Facebook faces inquiries over how it handles personal information and the tactics the social media company has used to grow to 2.1 billion users.Zuckerberg stood by Bosworth  who goes by the nickname "Boz " while distancing himself from the memo's contents. Bosworth confirmed the memo's authenticity but in a statement he  disavowed its message  saying its goal had been to encourage debate.Facebook users  advertisers and investors have been in an uproar for months over a series of scandals  most recently privacy practices that allowed political consultancy Cambridge Analytica to obtain personal information on 50 million Facebook members. Zuckerberg is expected to testify at a hearing with U.S. lawmakers as soon as April.Advertisement"Boz is a talented leader who says many provocative things. This was one that most people at Facebook including myself disagreed with strongly. We've never believed the ends justify the means " Zuckerberg said in a statement.AdvertisementBosworth wrote in the June 2016 memo that some "questionable" practices were all right if the result was connecting people.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."That's why all the work we do in growth is justified. All the questionable contact importing practices. All the subtle language that helps people stay searchable by friends " he wrote in the memo  which BuzzFeed published on its website.He also urged fellow employees not to let potential negatives slow them down."Maybe it costs a life by exposing someone to bullies. Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people " he wrote.Bosworth said Thursday that he did not agree with the post today "and I didn't agree with it even when I wrote it."Having a debate around hard topics like these is a critical part of our process and to do that effectively we have to be able to consider even bad ideas  if only to eliminate them " Bosworth's statement said.(Reporting by David Ingram; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy JACK NICASMARCH 30  2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election  executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google ” said Sundar Pichai  the company’s chief executive  according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election  the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said  “Boy  that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat  the finance chief  said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Sixteen months later  Google’s parent company  Alphabet  has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones  as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites.Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents  Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected  tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now  many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests  even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues.AdvertisementThe relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday  accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation   passed by the Senate last week  that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users.AdvertisementYet quietly  the tech industry has warmed to the White House  especially as companies including Alphabet  Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Those include lowering corporate taxes  encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and  so far  ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals  with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really  really good for tech ” said Gary Shapiro  who leads the Consumer Technology Association  the largest American tech trade group  with more than 2 200 members including Apple  Google  Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton  Mr. Trump’s opponent  in 2016  but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment  they have found areas where their interests align  like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.“This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here ” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers  “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others ” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.”Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas  the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States.“You know  for $350 million  you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion  they’re going to build a lot of plants ” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook  Apple’s chief executive  to personally thank him.AdvertisementIn fact  Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working  according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not  however  publicly corrected the president.Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy  while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign.Michael Kratsios  the White House’s deputy chief technology officer  said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences  “in places where we do see eye to eye  I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.”Dean Garfield  head of the Information Technology Industry Council  a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms  said his members walked a tightrope  supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately  he said  “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016  Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos  Amazon’s chief executive  once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.
            The @washingtonpost loses money (a deduction) and gives owner @JeffBezos power to screw public on low taxation of @Amazon! Big tax shelter        
            Finally trashed by @realDonaldTrump. Will still reserve him a seat on the Blue Origin rocket. #sendDonaldtospace https://t.co/9OypFoxZk3 Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November  Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies  including Google  Facebook and Uber  filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue.Even so  tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president  with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting  Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella  Microsoft’s chief executive  also dined with Jared Kushner  the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law  and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home  according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters.
            Glad to visit @Apple HQ with @tim_cook. Thank you for your commitment to invest 350B in USA! #TaxCutsJobsAct pic.twitter.com/TasRA55smG Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September  tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon  Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure.But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill.AdvertisementTech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules  Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes  according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20 000 new workers  invest in new data centers and another domestic campus  and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2 500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.
            I promised that my policies would allow companies like Apple to bring massive amounts of money back to the United States. Great to see Apple follow through as a result of TAX CUTS. Huge win for American workers and the USA! https://t.co/OwXVUyLOb1 The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler ” with nearly 1 000 followers  has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president.“Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here ” said the “About” section of the page  which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month  the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war ” the page said.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month  Rob Goldman  Facebook’s vice president of advertising  played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome  including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly.
            The Fake News Media never fails. Hard to ignore this fact from the Vice President of Facebook Ads  Rob Goldman! https://t.co/XGC7ynZwYJ Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president  said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly.Two days later  Facebook’s policy chief  Joel Kaplan  distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments  and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions ” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Silicon Valley   Wary of Trump   Warms to Him.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 30  2018

Did you stay up to date this week? To take the quiz  click on an answer  and the correct response will be revealed after you choose.


Last week  the question about the death of Sudan  the last male northern white rhinoceros  had the highest share of correct answers  with 93 percent. The question about Major League Baseball’s plans to play in London was the toughest; only 34 percent responded correctly. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The U.S. joined a campaign by two dozen countries on Monday to retaliate for the poisoning of a Russian former spy in Britain.As part of that effort  President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian officials from the U.S. as well as the closing of the Russian Consulate in which city?BostonMiamiSan FranciscoSeattleCrowds gathered last Saturday in cities across the U.S. and around the world to join student activists in protests against gun violence.After a mass shooting at a high school in Florida in February  the students hoped to elevate gun control as a key issue for the midterm elections.The title of the event encouraged participants to march for what?Our BeliefsOur FutureOur LivesOur RightsOur VotesNorth Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  made a surprise trip to China this week to meet with President Xi Jinping  the first known time that Mr. Kim traveled outside North Korea since taking power in 2011.The trip was reported by the state news media in China and North Korea only after Mr. Kim had left  but his presence in Beijing had been rumored after what telltale sign?The Chinese Air Force put on a special display Fanfare was heard outside the National People’s CongressMr. Xi announced a national holiday A bulletproof train arrived at Beijing’s central train stationThe U.S. Commerce Department announced on Monday that the 2020 census would include a question asking about what?Citizenship statusPhysical disabilitiesSexual preferenceSocial media useChristopher Wylie  above  testified before British lawmakers this week. For which organization did he work until 2014?Cambridge AnalyticaFacebookF.B.I.UberA fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo killed at least 64 people on Sunday  many of them children. Where did the fire occur? In an apartment blockIn a schoolIn a shopping mallIn a theme parkA TV interview with the pornographic film actress Stephanie Clifford about her alleged affair with Donald  Trump drew 22 million viewers on Sunday night. The interview appeared on which news program? “20/20”“60 Minutes”“Dateline”“Inside Edition”Municipal employees were able to use computers again on Tuesday after a sustained cyberattack against which American city?AtlantaCharlotte  N.C.MinneapolisPittsburghWhich dating app announced this week that it would change its software to encourage millions of its users to get frequent H.I.V. tests? BumbleGrindrHappnTinderThe sitcom “Roseanne” returned to ABC this week after a 21-year absence.The show got off to an enormously strong ratings start. About how many viewers watched on Tuesday?8 million18 million28 million38 millionThere was a cheating scandal in the world of cricket this week  with the revelation of a plan to tamper with a ball during an international series of matches.The captain of the national team for which country acknowledged concocting the plan?AustraliaEnglandIndiaSouth AfricaAdvertisementAdvertisementBy SHEERA FRENKEL and NELLIE BOWLESMARCH 30  2018
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook employees were in an uproar on Friday over a leaked 2016 memo from a top executive defending the social network’s growth at any cost — even if it caused deaths from a terrorist attack that was organized on the platform.In the memo  Andrew Bosworth  a Facebook vice president  wrote  “Maybe someone dies in a terrorist attack coordinated on our tools. And still we connect people. The ugly truth is that we believe in connecting people so deeply that anything that allows us to connect more people more often is *de facto* good.”Mr. Bosworth and Facebook’s chief executive  Mark Zuckerberg  have since disavowed the memo  which was published on Thursday by BuzzFeed News.But the fallout at the Silicon Valley company has been wide. According to two Facebook employees  workers have been calling on internal message boards for a hunt to find those who leak to the media. Some have questioned whether Facebook has been transparent enough with its users and with journalists  said the employees  who asked not to be identified for fear of retaliation. Many are also concerned over what might leak next and are deleting old comments or messages that might come across as controversial or newsworthy  they said.The brouhaha follows a period of intense scrutiny for Facebook and questions over what its responsibilities are to its more than 2.2 billion users. The company has been grappling this month with revelations that a British political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  improperly harvested data from 50 million of the social network’s users. Mr. Zuckerberg has since been on an apology tour over data privacy and is expected to testify before lawmakers in Washington.AdvertisementFacebook did not respond to a request for comment over employees’ reaction to the leaked memo.In the aftermath  some Facebook executives have taken to Twitter for a public charm offensive  sending pithy phrases and emoticons to reporters who cover the company. Adam Mosseri  Facebook’s head of news feed  in recent days wrote unprompted to a BuzzFeed editor and to its chief executive reminiscing and telling a story about his mother. He also wrote to a reporter from the Verge tech site about the songs played at his wedding reception.AdvertisementIn some of his tweets  Mr. Mosseri also defended Facebook. When writers from Vox and BuzzFeed tweeted that they noticed that stories critical of Facebook were receiving surprisingly low levels of traffic on Facebook  Mr. Mosseri jumped in.“We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us ” he tweeted.
            We 100% do not take any action on stories for being critical of us.        Mr. Bosworth  the author of the 2016 memo  also took to Twitter. Late Thursday  he said he did not agree with what he wrote in the memo “and I didn’t agree with it even when I wrote it.” He added that “the purpose of this post  like many others I have written internally  was to bring to the surface issues I felt deserved more discussion with the broader company.”The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.After BuzzFeed published the memo  Mr. Bosworth deleted it from an internal message board where it had originally been posted. In a statement to BuzzFeed  Mr. Zuckerberg praised Mr. Bosworth as “a talented leader who says many provocative things” and said that he and most people at Facebook did not agree with the memo and that the company had realized that it could not just be about connecting people.Facebook employees said on Friday that discussions were raging across the company regarding the merits of the post. Some called for executives to aggressively pursue action against those leaking to the media  said two Facebook employees  as well as for the company to do more to screen for potential whistle-blowers during the hiring process.At least one former Facebook employee  Alec Muffett  wrote on Twitter that Mr. Bosworth’s memo was responsible for his decision to leave the company.“Between overwork and leadership direction evidenced thusly  I could never stay ” wrote Mr. Muffett  who formerly worked as a Facebook engineer.
            Backplot: my "goodbye" posting to Facebook was in significant part in response to this work by @boztank  and subsequently garnered considerable support from Facebook's under-represented Engineering community  who genuinely do care about user privacy: https://t.co/GaoHLYoh17 “There are some amazing engineers working at Facebook  folks who care deeply about user privacy  security  and how people will use the code that they write ” Mr. Muffett said later in a message. “Alas this episode may not help” to achieve more transparent internal product discussion  he said.Follow Sheera Frenkel and Nellie Bowles on Twitter: @sheeraf and @NellieBowles.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Memo on ‘Ugly Truth’  Angers Facebook Staff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy DAN LEVINMARCH 30  2018
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Russia retaliates  migrants in limbo and celebrating Passover in Spain. Here’s the latest:• Russia hits back.The Kremlin announced that it would expel 150 Western diplomats and close the American Consulate in St. Petersburg  above  as tit-for-tat retaliation continues over a nerve-agent attack on British soil that London and its allies have attributed to Moscow.Britain said it would review the cases of 700 wealthy Russians who were granted visas largely because they could invest millions of dollars. It also signaled an openness to blocking the Russian government from British financial markets.The moves came on a day of good news in the poisoning attack. Yulia Skripal  who was attacked with her father  Sergei Skripal  “is no longer in critical condition.”_____• “Why am I here?” Two years after the E.U. and Turkey struck a deal to halt the flow of asylum seekers  thousands remain stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos.AdvertisementOne of our reporters visited a holding camp on the island  above  where she found miserable conditions and growing despair among those unable to move on  yet unwilling to go home.AdvertisementStuck in limbo  their plight reflects the enduring humanitarian toll of the migration crisis  which is expected to grow again as winter fades._____• Jeremy Corbyn  the British Labour Party’s most left-wing leader in decades  has galvanized supporters eager to get rid of the country’s Conservative government.But a mounting crisis over accusations of anti-Semitism has recharged a bitter argument about his leadership and forced many liberal British Jews to question whether they still have a political home in the party._____• It’s a date.North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea agreed to meet for the first time on April 27.They’ll get together in the truce village of Panmunjom at Peace House  above  meaning that Mr. Kim would become the first leader from the North to set foot in the South since the Korean War.Mr. Kim has signaled that he would meet with President Trump  though no date has been set._____• In Denmark  breaking up is about to get … slower.A push to digitalize official services makes it easy for Danes to view public records and even get divorced online.AdvertisementMaybe too easy  at least in a country with one of Europe’s highest divorce rates.So instead of ending their marriages in a few clicks  couples with children will soon be legally required to wait three months — and get counseling. The change is a rare government acknowledgment that technological innovation can’t solve every societal problem.• The Facebook scandal was a reminder: You’ve entrusted your digital life to a surveillance machine. Can social media be saved? Our columnist offers some solutions.• An astonishing $100 billion: That’s how much Facebook has lost in market capitalization since Feb. 2. The plunge has investors wary of other social media and internet stocks.• Hacked: Data was stolen from 150 million users of the MyFitnessPal nutrition app  according to its owner  Under Armour. The security breach involved user names  email addresses and passwords.• The U.S. plans to invoke an emergency law to limit Chinese investment in sensitive technological sectors  ranging from microchips to 5G wireless.• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• Former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France will stand trial on influence-peddling charges  the latest in his series of mounting legal woes. [The New York Times]• Christopher Steele  the author of the notorious Trump dossier  provided a secret report to the F.B.I. asserting that a former Russian minister was murdered in Washington by enforcers hired by an oligarch close to Vladimir Putin. [BuzzFeed]What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.• Robert Mercer  the billionaire Trump donor behind Cambridge Analytica  secretly volunteers as a police officer. But he’s not doing it to protect the public. Rather  the badge lets him carry a concealed gun anywhere in the U.S. [Bloomberg]Advertisement• In the U.S.  the Fox News host Laura Ingraham apologized for taunting a survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland  Fla.  as at least four companies confirmed they would pull ads from her show. [The New York Times]• Protesters rallied in Ireland and Northern Ireland after two professional rugby players were acquitted of rape. [The Guardian]• Malala Yousafzai  the world’s youngest Nobel laureate  returned to her native Pakistan for the first time since she was gravely wounded there as a child by a Taliban attack in 2012. [The New York Times]Tips  both new and old  for a more fulfilling life.•Recipe of the day: End the week with a quick  delicious dinner of pan-roasted salmon with jalapeño.• Use these tips to throw a healthy and relaxed dinner party.• Improve public health through proper sneezing etiquette.• The Jewish holiday of Passover  celebrating liberation and rebirth  begins tonight. In an Opinion piece  a writer traveling through Europe explores the joy and sadness of observing this ancient tradition in Spain  a “land of Jewish ghosts.”• Last week we told you about Ata  a tiny mummy once rumored to be an alien. Now  Chile wants to know how the skeleton was exhumed and smuggled abroad  and researchers have called the medical study unethical.Are you familiar with the term “March Madness”? Americans are awash in it  but for their colleagues abroad  here’s the short form.AdvertisementU.S. college basketball’s signature tournament has reached its peak: The Final Four is on Saturday  setting up the championship game on Monday. Here’s our full coverage.The N.C.A.A. tournament  also known as the Big Dance  is among the most cherished rites of American sports. About 350 colleges and universities field teams in the top division  compared with 65 in football. At the end of the regular season  68 teams move on to a knockout tournament.The first men’s tournament was held in 1939  and for more than a decade only eight teams were invited. The women’s tourney started in 1982. The moniker “March Madness” became part of pop vernacular in the mid-1980s  stemming from the David-versus-Goliath upsets that always shock players  coaches  fans and bookmakers.The odds of picking a perfect bracket are 1 in 9.2 quintillion. Even so  it’s almost a duty of U.S. citizenship to fill out a tournament bracket. (Last year  ESPN.com reported that some 70 million brackets were filled out and $10.4 billion was wagered.)The men’s Final Four consists of Kansas  Michigan Villanova and Loyola-Chicago  a team that entered as a 300-to-1 underdog and wasn’t supposed to win its first game.In the women’s tournament  Connecticut  Louisville  Mississippi State and Notre Dame are the last teams standing.Matt Futterman contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition  we have Australian  Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights  and here’s our full range of free newsletters.AdvertisementWhat would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »PAID FOR AND POSTED BY CTCA FOUNDATION MEDICINEWhile biomarker-driven drugs alone won't treat all cancers  precision cancer treatments  help oncologists fight cancer more strategically. Using genomic testing  doctors are better able to determine what mutations are driving the cancer and prescribe drugs that target specific characteristics in patients’ tumor cells. “In the last five to 10 years  genomic testing has changed our understanding of how tumors behave on a molecular level ” explains Dr. Justin Chura  director of gynecologic oncology at Cancer Treatment Centers of America in Philadelphia. “That is revolutionary for our patients.”
Amid the rapid growth of genomic testing  researchers are seeing the potential for precision cancer treatment to change the landscape for the diagnosis  treatment and prevention of cancer.“Most advanced cancers have already been treated with a traditional regimen  like chemotherapy  which tends to work in maybe 10 to 40 percent of cases ” explains Dr. Vincent A. Miller  chief medical officer at Foundation Medicine. "Treatments informed by genomic testing may increase the probability of improved short- and long-term survival  with less toxicity to the patient."Cancer Treatment Centers of America offers clinically qualified patients access to this cutting-edge approach  thanks in part to a relationship with Foundation Medicine  a molecular information company that performs genomic testing at its labs in Massachusetts  North Carolina and Germany. Foundation Medicine has developed a portfolio of genomic tests designed to accurately analyze a broad range of genes known to drive cancer growth. Using a single tissue or blood sample  these tests may help oncologists determine which targeted therapies  immunotherapies or clinical trials may be appropriate for their patients.Since the data on genomic mutations and corresponding therapies grows and evolves so quickly  it’s vital to stay up-to-date on the latest changes. That’s why organizations like Cancer Treatment Centers of America and Foundation Medicine do more than collaborate on the identification of targeted treatment options. They also work together to advance the field of oncology by hosting multidisciplinary tumor boards where experts on all sides can analyze new findings.
“These tumor boards combine the genomicists and clinical oversight from Foundation Medicine with the oncologic and pathologic expertise from CTCA to really interpret the data ” says Dr. Miller.
 
Foundation Medicine also contributes to this growing field by compiling the de-identified genomic profiles of tumors into a searchable database. This database serves as a resource for the medical  scientific and pharmaceutical communities.It helps speed the discovery of additional driver mutations and biomarkers  which may lead to the development of new treatments that target these pathways and biomarkers  and the initiation of evidence-based clinical trials. The pipeline for these new therapies is substantial. Currently  there are 26 immuno-oncology therapies approved around the world  but there are 2 004 in various stages of clinical or preclinical development  according to a paper in the December 2017 issue of Annals of Oncology.“We are standing on the slope of the graph where the information generated is doubling and tripling in a really short amount of time ” says Julia Elvin  an anatomic pathologist and senior associate medical director at Foundation Medicine. “This is an incredibly exciting time in oncology care.”
The news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this post's preparation.Go to Home Page »