AdvertisementBy TIFFANY HSU and CECILIA KANGMARCH 26  2018
A parade of regulators  politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday  as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread.Early in the day  the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users.Soon after  Senator Charles E. Grassley  Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee  invited Mark Zuckerberg  Facebook’s chief executive  to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive  Sundar Pichai  and Twitter’s chief executive  Jack Dorsey.And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards.AdvertisementBut one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week.AdvertisementThe federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica  which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign  gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users.The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy.The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement  which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps  carries a penalty of up to $40 000 a day.The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency.The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.”Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week  the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify.“I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica  and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there ” Senator John Kennedy  Republican from Louisiana  said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.”AdvertisementSome lawmakers  such as Senator Richard Blumenthal  Democrat from Connecticut  asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users.“The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree ” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism  too. On Monday  Common Cause  a government watchdog group in Washington  filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law.In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users  The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections  despite a warning from its own election lawyer.The employees worked on polling  message development  and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals.The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account  suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns.Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department  which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission  which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules.“It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway ” said Paul S. Ryan  Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco  lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform.AdvertisementThe second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button  including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology  could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook  according to the lawsuit.Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information.In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal  in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights  many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.”Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign  as it has been called  has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp  one of Facebook’s most popular services  who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk  the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla  removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday.While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States  pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years.The company has been the subject of several privacy investigations and charges by European regulators. And Europe has approved a new privacy law  which takes effect in May  that will give users of Facebook  Google and other internet services more control over how their data is collected and what Silicon Valley companies know about them.Follow Tiffany Hsu and Cecilia Kang on Twitter: @tiffkhsu  @ceciliakangNicholas Confessore and Sheera Frenkel contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Regulators Hammer Facebook.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinMARCH 26  2018
Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Best day for stocks in nearly three years.• A reality check on the White House’s tariff tactics.• Tim Cook and other C.E.O.s took shots at Facebook.• Eddie Lampert finally speaks about Sears.• Washington and Beijing hold trade talks.Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.Stocks on Wall Street surged on signs of easing trade tensions.The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 669 points  or 2.8 percent  the S.&P. 500 surged 2.7 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 3.3 percent.AdvertisementIt was the largest one-day point gain for the Dow since October 2008  according to The WSJ  and the biggest one-day percentage gain for S.&P. 500 and Dow since August 2015.AdvertisementWorries that the Trump administration’s protectionist policies could ignite a trade war between the world’s two largest economies punished equities last week. American stocks endured their worst week in two years as the Dow lost 1 400 points  or 5.7 percent.Tensions seemed to relax over the weekend. The WSJ reported late Sunday that “China and the U.S. have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.” Also  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview that he’s “cautiously hopeful” that China will reach a deal to avoid tariffs.Shares jumped at the open and the momentum gained through the day as last week’s hardest hit sectors led the way.• The S.&P. 500 technology sector rose 4 percent. Microsoft and Apple gained 7.6 percent and 4.8 percent  respectively.• The KBW Bank Index climbed 3 percent on Monday  after tumbling 8 percent last week. Bank of America finished up 4.4 percent  while Morgan Stanley gained 4.3 percent. The two stocks had fallen nearly 5 percent on Friday.• Even Facebook  which was down 6.5 percent earlier in the day from the continued fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal  was able to eek out gains. The stock finished up 0.4 percent higher.• Gun stocks were the exception. Shares of publicly traded firearms companies fell in the wake Remington Outdoor bankruptcy filing and this weekend rallies for gun control. American Outdoor Brands fell 2.3 percent  Vista Outdoor dropped 3.8 percent and Sturm  Ruger & Co. slipped less than 1 percent.Investors last week looked at President Trump’s tariffs against Chinese products and seemed to conclude that he was taking the U.S. into a trade war with China. The stock market plunged 6 percent.AdvertisementPerhaps eager to stop the rout  the White House on Monday had a less confrontational message: Mr. Trump is applying one of his negotiating tactics. According to this view  the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about wanting to make trade with China fairer.From a CNBC interview with Kevin Hassett  the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers:“From the beginning  all the way back to last summer when I arrived at the White House  the president has been clear that he wants to set a marker down with some big asks at the beginning  he doesn’t want to dribble them out  and then he wants his negotiators to try to fix the trade problems. ...Hopefully  it all works out with negotiation.”Mr. Hassett’s comments were in response to a WSJ article reporting that China and the U.S. were quietly engaged in trade negotiations.Investors seemed somewhat relieved: The stock market was up 1.5 percent on Monday. Of course  if the stakes are small enough  a deal may get done in the coming months that allows both sides to claim victory. But it seems unlikely that China would quickly agree to a far-reaching overhaul of the rules that govern foreign investment in the country  a major area of dispute. Our colleagues Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur showed the depth of the divide there.Mr. Trump could up the ante if China shows no real signs that it will open up considerably. That could roil the markets again. The White House may want to signal that it can take market turmoil in stride. Mr. Hassett on Monday seemed to say that the White House expects market sell-offs as it pursues its trade agenda.“If you start from a world where a bunch your intellectual technology is being stolen  then of course it’s going to increase risk premiums in the short run when you try to do something about it  but in the end it should be a positive for us if we can get them to just stop them disregarding the rules of international order.”(Rising risk premiums means investors require a better return on their stocks and bonds to cover higher risks. This usually involves a decline in price to make their returns look better to prospective buyers.)Still  the more conciliatory tone from the White House after the sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full-on trade war.— Peter EavisThe stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice.AdvertisementAlso on Monday  Senator Chuck Grassley  Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee  invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive  Sundar Pichai  and Twitter’s chief executive  Jack Dorsey.Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago.To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days  Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value.Despite the fall  Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock  compare to just two who have sell ratings  according to Bloomberg.The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations  after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica:“I think that this certain situation is so dire and has become so large that probably some well-crafted regulation is necessary. The ability of anyone to know what you’ve been browsing about for years  who your contacts are  who their contacts are  things you like and dislike and every intimate detail of your life — from my own point of view  it shouldn’t exist.”Apple often uses privacy as a selling point  but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages  saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook  highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.)Meanwhile  Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg.Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew.Andrew’s takeMr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread  given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law  but ultimately complied.AdvertisementAs for Facebook’s ad  take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations.The activist investor’s fund  Third Point  has built a position in United Technologies  according to an antitrust filing.He is the second activist investor to reveal a stake in the United Technologies during the past 30 days. On Feb. 28  Bill Ackman told CNBC that his Pershing Square had a position in the defense contractor.Context At a conference late last month  Greg Hayes  the chief executive of United Technologies  said the company was thinking of splitting up:“Is [United Technologies] a more valuable property together or is UTC better off in three separate businesses? That’s the question for the board. That’s the question we continue to study.”Shares of United Technologies are up nearly 3 percent on Monday.Gebr Knauf disclosed in a filing on Monday that it had offered to buy USG for $42 a share  or about $6 billion. That marked a 25 percent premium to USG closing price on Friday.In rejecting the offer  USG said the proposal substantially undervalued the building products maker.Knauf owns 10.5 percent of USG  making Knauf the second-largest shareholder in USG behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway with a 31 percent stake.Berkshire had proposed an option for Knauf to buy Berkshire’s stake in USG  according to the filing. The option would be exercisable only if Knauf bought all of USG’s shares outstanding for at least $42. Berkshire proposed an option purchase price of $2 per share.From Reuters:The option provides a sweetener for Buffett to shed a profitable investment that originated in late 2008  at the height of the housing crisis  when Berkshire and Canada’s Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd bought $400 million of USG’s debt.The $2 per share cost of the option would provide Berkshire about $86.8 million upfront  based on its 43.39 million share USG stake. Berkshire would keep that money even if Knauf proved unable to buy USG.Shares of USG are up 19 percent Monday.With Sears Holdings increasingly desperate in its efforts to stay afloat  the company’s C.E.O. gave his first in-depth interview in roughly 15 years to William D. Cohan of Vanity Fair. Mr. Lampert spoke about his past successes and his current travails as the head of the troubled retailer. (Mr. Cohan also spoke with Renaldo Rose  the man who spearheaded the kidnapping of Mr. Lampert in 2003.)AdvertisementThe money quote  from Mr. Lampert:“Put it this way  if I consider all the other alternatives  they’re not great for a lot of people and I just want to be responsible. If I didn’t believe that this company could be transformed still — the window is definitely shrinking — but if I didn’t believe that  I would try to take a different path. But I don’t know what that path exactly would be. It’s not a question of giving up or not giving up.”A bonus quote on Steven Mnuchin  Mr. Lampert’s college roommate and a director of Sears before becoming Treasury secretary  from Mark Cohen  the former C.E.O. of Sears Canada:“[With] all of Trump’s focus on jobs  job preservation  job creation  somebody ought to ask his secretary of the Treasury what his involvement has been for 11 years in the destruction of well over 100 000 jobs at Sears.”After a Friday that saw the markets sink amid fears of a trade war  the U.S. and China are holding high-level talks to defuse tensions  the WSJ reports. Leading them: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin  U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Liu He  Beijing’s economic czar.Among Washington’s requests  in a letter to Mr. Liu  were lower Chinese tariffs on American cars and more freedom for Wall Street firms to expand in China.Mr. Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday” that he believed the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve was to blame for recent market declines  not tariffs. He added  “We’re not afraid of a trade war  but that’s not our objective.”News of the talks have lifted markets in Asia and Europe  while S.&P. 500 futures jumped this morning. It will also undoubtedly ease the fears of C.E.O.s  economists and foreign leaders and allies who have openly fretted about the prospect of a trade war. A sample quote  from Larry Fink of BlackRock: “The world does not need a public fight in which we reduce future opportunities.”• Stormy Daniels told “60 Minutes” that she signed a nondisclosure agreement  for which she received $130 000  about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump because she was worried about her safety and that of her daughter. “Leave Trump alone ” a stranger told her in 2011. Read the NYT profile of her from this weekend.•  President Trump decided not to add Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing to his legal defense team in the special counsel’s investigation. That team now largely consists of one lawyer  Jay Sekulow.• The spotlight has fallen on Elliott Broidy  a top Republican fund-raiser who promised White House access to his investment and defense contractor clients. (NYT)• How Jared Kushner is quietly trying to mend U.S.-Mexico relations. (NYT)• What to expect from John Bolton  the new national security adviser. (Axios)On a weekend in which millions turned out for student-led rallies for gun control  Remington Outdoor officially sought Chapter 11 protection in Delaware. The biggest problems for the firearms maker: too much debt after being sold to Cerberus Capital Management  and a drop in gun sales after Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election in 2016.AdvertisementOn guns and politics: Brad Karp and Christopher Boehning of the law firm Paul Weiss argue that firearms manufacturers should lose legal immunity to lawsuits tied to gun deaths. Saturday’s marches could make gun control a potent issue in the midterm elections. And the U.S.’s broad support for gun control has many nuances.The media mogul spoke to Maureen Dowd of the NYT about: President Trump (not a fan); the current state of the media business (bullish on Netflix  bearish on Hollywood); and cloning his late dog  Shannon (he did it). Here’s what he had to say about workplace misconduct:“We recently had a formal complaint made by a woman who said that she was at a convention with her colleagues and she was asked to have a drink with her boss. Period. That was the complaint. And we said  ‘Here’s the thing. Anybody can ask you anything  other than let’s presume something illegal  and you have the right to say “Yes” or “No.” If it’s “Yes ” go in good health and if it’s “No ” then it’s full stop.’“But the end result of that is a guy  let’s presume he is heterosexual  and his boss  heterosexual  and guy asks guy for a drink and they go have a drink and they talk about career opportunities. And the boss says  ‘Oh  this is a smart guy. I’m promoting him.’ A woman now cannot be in that position. So all these things are a-changin’.”But he also added  “Other than psychopaths  I think all of this bad behavior is finished.”The ride-hailing giant finally sealed a deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to the (SoftBank-backed) Grab in exchange for a stake in its competitor. Like the sale of its Chinese and Russian businesses  this gets Uber out of a costly fight as it readies for an I.P.O. next year. But does this mean that Uber is also set to leave other competitive markets  like India?On self-driving cars: Even before a pedestrian was killed in Tempe  Ariz.  Uber was struggling with its autonomous vehicle efforts  needing human intervention nearly every 13 miles on average in Arizona tests. Those technical issues made being an operator of Uber’s cars very stressful.Elsewhere in tech: Amazon is collecting local taxes  but several cities aren’t seeing a dime. And why haven’t smart kitchen devices taken off?• SoftBank’s board is investigating who was behind a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of two of its executives  unnamed sources said. It is also considering a $1 billion investment in a Chinese truck-hailing company  according to unnamed sources.• After naming Yi Gang the governor of China’s central bank  Beijing has put another reformer  Guo Shuqing  above him as the bank’s Communist Party secretary. (NYT)• John C. Williams  the president of the San Francisco Fed  is a top candidate to succeed Bill Dudley at the New York Fed. (NYT)Advertisement• Duke Tran  who was once a Khmer Rouge slave  has been fighting Wells Fargo for more than four years  saying he was fired for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. (NYT)• G.E. sold off much of its lending unit  but investors are worried about what’s left of G.E. Capital. (WSJ)• Sergio Ermotti said UBS would be looking at small acquisitions to help it grow. (Bloomberg)• Britain’s JD Sports Fashion has agreed to buy Finish Line  the U.S. sportswear retailer that operates concessions in Macy’s  for $558 million. (Bloomberg)• Some of the most aggressive and successful labor actions in recent years have erupted when professionals felt their judgment  expertise and autonomy were under assault. (NYT)• When the elderly call for help in the U.S.  it’s often a “chain” immigrant who answers. (NYT)• Apple is going to Hollywood  but will it find a happy ending? (NYT)• Ad agencies have long used classical music  but these days it’s more than a jokey device or a signifier of sophistication. (NYT)• New Japan Pro-Wrestling  backed by Mark Cuban  is out to loosen W.W.E.’s grip on the industry. (NYT)We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  5:10 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - The European Commission pressed Facebook on Monday over whether EU citizens' data were among those improperly harvested by a British political consultancy  after the U.S. regulator said it was investigating the firm's privacy practices.That piled yet more pressure on a firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days.Facebook shares fell more than 5 percent on Monday after the U.S. consumer protection regulator made public its investigation of how the social network allowed data of 50 million users to get into the hands of Cambridge Analytica.Facebook executives have apologized after reports emerged that Cambridge Analytica had used personal data to target U.S. voters.Advertisement"Have any data of EU citizens been affected by the recent scandal?" EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova wrote in a letter to Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg  seen by Reuters. "If this is the case  how do you intend to inform the authorities and users about it?"AdvertisementJourova said that statements by Facebook executives had not alleviated her concerns."This is particularly disappointing given our efforts to build a relationship based on trust with you and your colleagues ... this trust is now diminished."A Facebook spokeswoman said the company remained strongly committed to protecting people's information and appreciated "the opportunity to explain what we know and will respond to the questions that the Commissioner has asked".Jourova asked Sandberg whether she was certain that a similar situation could "not be repeated today" and if she thought stricter rules were needed for platforms "like those that exist for traditional media".Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."As Mark Zuckerberg said this week  we are working hard to tackle past abuse  prevent future abuse and give people more prominent controls " the Facebook spokeswoman said.Germany's justice minister called for stricter rules for Facebook after meeting with company executives on Monday who said around 1 percent of 300 000 users of a personality quiz whose results were later fed into Cambridge Analytica's voter-targeting algorithms were in Europe.Jourova said she wanted a reply to her letter within two weeks.The Cambridge Analytica scandal emerged only a few months before a landmark EU data protection law comes into force under which companies found to be in breach could be fined up to 4 percent of global turnover.Any eventual sanctions for Facebook will fall under the current privacy regulations  and so would be much lower.Britain's data watchdog is taking the lead in investigating Facebook and Cambridge Analytica from the European side  and Jourova said she expected the social network to cooperate fully with European data protection authorities.(Reporting by Julia Fioretti; Editing by Andrew Roche and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  3:23 P.M. E.D.T.
Authorities in the U.S. and Europe are bearing down on Facebook and political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users and used it to manipulate elections.There have been numerous demands for investigations and calls for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify. Zuckerberg has said he's willing to testify before Congress to answer questions about the privacy scandal. But he suggested other executives might be better qualified to field questions from lawmakers.___IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:— PARLIAMENT COMMITTEE: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman  Damian Collins  said his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He said Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." In a letter to Zuckerberg  Collins wrote  "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process."— INFORMATION COMMISSIONER: Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. Although Cambridge Analytica said it is committed to helping the U.K. investigation  Denham's office said the firm failed to meet a deadline to produce the information requested. Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way.Advertisement___IN GERMANY:— Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook  following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.___IN THE UNITED STATES:— SENATE: The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Sen. Charles Grassley  an Iowa Republican  says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected  retained and distributed for commercial use. Senate Democrats have also been seeking information or Zuckerberg's testimony  while Republicans on the Commerce Committee also sent letters requesting information from Facebook and Cambridge parent SCL Group.Advertisement— HOUSE: Chris Wylie  a former Cambridge Analytica employee who became a whistleblower  has agreed to be interviewed by Democrats on the U.S. House Intelligence Committee. A date has not been set  and it's unclear if Republicans on the panel will attend.— FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The agency confirms it will investigation following news reports last week. Tom Pahl  acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection  said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances  though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.— INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  4:44 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A group of whistleblowers on Monday questioned the integrity of Britain's vote to leave the European Union  presenting 50 pages of documents that they say prove the official Brexit campaign group violated election finance rules on the way to winning the 2016 referendum.They allege that the official Vote Leave campaign circumvented spending limits by donating 625 000 pounds ($888 000) to the pro-Brexit student group BeLeave but sending the money directly to campaign consultant AggregateIQ. The firm has long-term links to Cambridge Analytica  the British consultant accused of misusing Facebook data to help Donald Trump win the 2016 U.S. presidential election  the group says."This not about re-fighting the referendum " Chris Wylie  the central figure in the original Cambridge Analytica revelations  told reporters at a packed news conference in London. "It's about the integrity of the democratic process."The allegations have been presented to Britain's Electoral Commission and come just days after a prominent Labour Party politician called for a second Brexit referendum once the true costs of leaving the bloc become clear. Britain voted to leave the EU in a June 2016 referendum  with 52 percent of voters supporting Brexit.AdvertisementThey were first published last weekend as part of a wide-ranging investigation of Cambridge Analytica by Britain's Observer newspaper  together with Channel Four and The New York Times. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission said Monday that it is investigating Facebook's privacy practices as a result of concerns raised by earlier stories in the series.AdvertisementCampaign finance rules limited Vote Leave's spending on the Brexit referendum to 7 million pounds. When Vote Leave got close to that limit during the final weeks of the campaign  it made the donation to BeLeave  said Shahmir Sanni  a volunteer who helped run the grassroots student group."I know that Vote Leave cheated " Sanni told Britain's Channel 4 news. "I know that people have been lied to and that the referendum wasn't legitimate."Attorney Tamsin Allen laid out the evidence supporting the claims during a news conference in London  presenting journalists with printouts of electronic message exchanges  photos and a legal opinion presented to Britain's Electoral Commission.The message exchanges show Vote Leave officials overseeing the content of material distributed by BeLeave volunteers  and offering suggestions on how BeLeave workers should respond to questions from the Electoral Commission. One email from a commission investigator discusses how BeLeave should report the Vote Leave donation since it never actually received the money.The whistleblowers also have evidence that AggregateIQ was sending targeted ads on behalf of BeLeave at a time when it was working closely with Vote Leave  Allen said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."A number of witnesses  including Shahmir Sanni  one of the Vote Leave volunteers  have now come forward with their accounts and produced emails  invoices  photographs and evidence from the internal systems of Vote Leave and BeLeave " she said.Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson  a leading figure in the Leave campaign  dismissed the campaign finance allegations as "ludicrous."Environment Secretary Michael Gove  who was co-chair of the Vote Leave campaign  insisted the referendum result must be respected.Advertisement"I respect the motives and understand the feelings of those who voted to remain in the EU " he said. "But 17.4 million opted to leave in a free and fair vote and the result must be respected. It's our job now to work to overcome division."AggregateIQ  based in Victoria  British Columbia  said it has never been part of Cambridge Analytica and has never signed a contract with the company. But Wylie told the Observer that he was instrumental in the foundation of AggregateIQ  when he was the research director of SCL  the parent company of Cambridge Anayltica. He said they shared underlying technology and worked so closely together that Cambridge Analytica staff often referred to the Canadian firm as a department.But the company said it was 100-percent Canadian owned and operated and was never part of Cambridge Analytica or SCL."AggregateIQ works in full compliance within all legal and regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where it operates " the company said in a statement. "It has never knowingly been involved in any illegal activity. All work AggregateIQ does for each client is kept separate from every other client.'"Britain's Electoral Commission says it doesn't comment on active investigations  but it has acknowledged a number of open inquiries related to the EU referendum.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  12:16 P.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  Companies like Facebook must face stricter regulation and tougher penalties meted out by better equipped data-protection authorities  Germany's justice minister said on Monday after a meeting with senior executives from the company.Katarina Barley summoned the bosses  including European public affairs chief Richard Allan  after allegations surfaced that data from millions of its users was improperly used by consultants Cambridge Analytica to target U.S. and British voters in close-run elections."Facebook admitted abuses and excesses in the past and gave assurances that measures since taken mean they can't happen again " she said. "But promises aren't enough. In future we will have to regulate companies like Facebook much more strictly."(Reporting by Thomas Escritt; Editing by Joseph Nasr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  3:52 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on reports that millions of Facebook users' data was used to target political ads (all times local):3:30 p.m.Cook County is suing Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users.The lawsuit filed Friday in Cook County Circuit Court alleges Trump-affiliated political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica deceived the millions of Illinois Facebook users whose information it collected. It says Facebook failed to protect its users' privacy and misrepresented how their data would be used.London-based Cambridge Analytica has been accused of using Facebook data to influence voter behavior in U.S. elections.The Chicago Tribune reports the lawsuit filed by Cook County State's Attorney Kimberly Foxx on behalf of Illinois residents brings one consumer fraud count each against Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. It seeks $50 000 fines for each violation of the law.AdvertisementNeither company has commented on the lawsuit.___2:20 p.m.The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy.AdvertisementSen. Charles Grassley of Iowa says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected  retained and distributed for commercial use. He says the hearing also will examine what steps companies like Facebook can do to better protect personal information.Grassley's committee is the third congressional panel to seek Zuckerberg's testimony in the wake of a privacy scandal involving Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-connected data-mining company.Several Judiciary Committee members had pressed Grassley to hold the hearing.Grassley says he's also invited Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.___12:15 p.m.The chief law enforcement officers for 37 U.S. states and territories are demanding to know when Facebook learned of a huge breach of privacy protections.The officers say in a letter Monday to CEO Mark Zuckerberg that users' trust in the social media platform is "broken."The attorneys general are asking how Facebook monitored what these developers did with all the data they collected and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to more easily control the privacy of their accounts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Cambridge Analytica  a political data-mining firm  is accused of lifting data from some 50 million Facebook users to influence voters in U.S. elections.Advertisement___11:55 a.m.Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook  following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data.Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.She added that "promises aren't enough  though. We will need to monitor companies such as Facebook much more strictly in future and also punish breaches of data protection strongly  swiftly and painfully."Barley said Facebook reacted "favorably" to her demand for greater transparency about the algorithms that underpin the company's data collection.She said campaigns such as "Delete Facebook" would likely make a strong impression on the company because "in the end the currency that Facebook works with is trust."___10:50 a.m.The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Facebook's privacy practices following a week of privacy scandals including whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers.Facebook's stock  which already took a big hit last week  plunged as a result.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.News outlets have reported on the FTC investigation last week  but the FTC hadn't confirmed it until Monday. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances.___5 a.m.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is promising to do a better job protecting user data following reports that a political consultant misused the personal information of millions of the company's subscribers. The fact is  European regulators are already forcing him to do so.AdvertisementA similar data breach in the future could make Facebook liable for fines of more than $1.6 billion under the European Union's new General Data Protection Regulation  which will be enforced from May 25. The rules  approved two years ago  also make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data and apply to any company that uses the data of EU residents  no matter where it is based.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:02 A.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc said on Monday it would expand its local news push beyond the United States to provide users with more stories from local sources covering their current cities and other cities of interest.In January  Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg had announced the changes that first rolled out in the United States and would expand to a global audience.The changes come amid allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to Facebook users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.Facebook also faces criticism that its algorithms may have prioritized misleading news in people's feeds.(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  7:55 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  A whistleblower at the heart of a Facebook data scandal on Monday questioned the result of Britain's 2016 Brexit referendum as his lawyers presented evidence that they said showed the main campaign for leaving the EU had broken the law.With just a year until Britain is due to leave the European Union  two whistleblowers - one from the British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica and one from the Vote Leave group - have alleged that Brexit campaigners funded their campaign illegally.By doing so  they have pulled Brexit into a scandal that has forced Mark Zuckerberg to apologise for how Facebook handled users' data  and raised questions about how Donald Trump's 2016 campaign employed data.Vote Leave officials on Monday denied breaking election rules and said they were facing an attempt to undermine Brexit by smearing their reputations.AdvertisementThe whistleblowers' law firm  London-based Bindmans  released 53 pages of selected evidence on Monday.AdvertisementIn a legal opinion  Bindmans said there was a prima facie case that Vote Leave broke election spending limits by donating to an allied group known as BeLeave  with which it was working closely."Can we be confident in the result of the referendum?" said whistleblower Christopher Wylie  formerly of Cambridge Analytica. "This is not refighting the referendum. This is about the integrity of the democratic process."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."If this country is on the path of an irreversible decision  we really should be confident that the basis of that decision came from a free and fair vote - and what this evidence does is it calls into question whether it was free and fair."Reuters was unable to verify the allegations made against Vote Leave. Matthew Elliott  its former CEO  said the allegations were wrong."Vote Leave did not break the law " Elliott told Reuters. "Voters can be confident this was a free and fair referendum."Elliott said the Electoral Commission had twice looked into Vote Leave's relationship with BeLeave and had given it a clean bill of health both times. He said he was confident that the third investigation would produce the same result."The basis of all this is an attempt by people on the 'Remain' campaign to call into doubt the result of the EU referendum " Elliott said.(Reporting by Alistair Smout  writing by Guy Faulconbridge; Editing by Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  5:17 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook as they probe whether the company's data-collection practices have hurt the people who use its services.The Federal Trade Commission confirmed news reports on Monday that it was investigating the company. Separately  the attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app  even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing.Facebook is also facing questions about reports that it collected years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and information about text messages from Android users. Facebook says the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others. But the company did not spell out exactly what it used the data for or why it needed it.AdvertisementEuropean officials also have also been investigating or seeking more information. Germany's justice minister said Monday that she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook after a meeting with its executives about the abuse of users' data. Last week  a U.K. parliamentary media committee summoned CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about how Facebook uses data  while U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating how Cambridge Analytica got the data.AdvertisementIn addition  the state's attorney of Cook County in Illinois has sued Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for consumer fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. Facebook has not commented on the lawsuit.The recent troubles follow Facebook's most difficult year yet  as the company dealt with fake news  "filter bubbles" that lead to increasing polarization  and congressional hearings over Russian agents' alleged use of social media to meddle with the 2016 presidential elections.In January  Zuckerberg set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018. Nearly three months in  it's a taller order than ever.Tom Pahl  acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection  said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances  though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Marc Rotenberg  executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center  believes Facebook was in violation of the 2011 settlement in letting Cambridge Analytica harvest data on friends of Facebook users. He called the investigation "good news.""This is what Facebook was doing 10 years ago that people objected to  what the FTC should have stopped in 2011 " Rotenberg said. "It makes zero sense that when a person downloads their apps  they have the ability to transfer the data of their friends."Although Zuckerberg talked about changes in 2014 that would have prevented this  Rotenberg said it should have been banned already under the 2011 consent decree. He said the FTC had dropped the ball in failing to enforce that.AdvertisementMeanwhile  state attorneys general asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily."Facebook has made promises about users' privacy in the past  and we need to know that users can trust Facebook " they wrote. "With the information we have now  our trust has been broken."In a statement  Facebook's vice president for state and local public policy  Will Castleberry  said the attorneys general "have raised important questions and we appreciate their interest. Our internal review of the situation continues and we look forward to responding."Facebook's stock  which already took a big hit last week  fell Monday after the FTC announcement but recovered by the end of the day. With Monday's close at $160.06  the stock is down almost 14 percent since March 16  when the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.___Selsky reported from Salem  Oregon. AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »