AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Facebook's CEO apologized for the Cambridge Analytica scandal with ads in multiple U.S. and British newspapers Sunday  saying the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it.The ads signed by Mark Zuckerberg said a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. "This was a breach of trust  and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time. We're now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again " the ads said.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a political consulting firm affiliated with President Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign  got data inappropriately. The firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society.Facebook's stock value has dropped more than $70 billion since the revelations were first published.Among the newspapers with the ads were The New York Times and The Washington Post in the U.S. and The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph in the United Kingdom.AdvertisementThe ads said Facebook is limiting the data apps receive when users sign in. It's also investigating every app that had access to large amounts of data. "We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected " the ads stated.Zuckerberg closed the ads by saying: "I promise to do better for you."Cambridge Analytica got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.AdvertisementThe Trump campaign paid the firm $6 million during the 2016 election  although it has since distanced itself from Cambridge.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  6:08 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on Facebook's data collection from members (all times local):6:05 p.m.On the same day Facebook bought ads in U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal  the social media site faced new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices.The website ars technica reported that users who checked data collected by Facebook found that it had two or more years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and text messages.Facebook says the information is uploaded to secure servers and comes only from users who opt-in to allow it . Spokeswomen say the data is not shared with friends or any outside apps. They say the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others.Facebook says on its website that it never sells the data and does not collect content of text messages or calls. But spokeswomen did not answer a question about why exactly it needs phone call and text message information.AdvertisementFacebook says the data was used only from Android phones.___2:27 p.m.Facebook's CEO has taken out full-page ads in multiple U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The ads say the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it. The ads were signed by Mark Zuckerberg and appeared in Sunday newspapers.According to the ads  a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. Zuckerberg said this was a breach of trust and that Facebook is taking steps to make sure it doesn't happen again.AdvertisementFacebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  got data inappropriately. The social media platform's stock value has dropped nearly $70 billion since the revelations were first published.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  7:20 A.M. E.D.T.
On the same day Facebook bought ads in U.S. and British newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal  the social media site faced new questions about collecting phone numbers and text messages from Android devices.The website Ars Technica reported that users who checked data gathered by Facebook on them found that it had years of contact names  telephone numbers  call lengths and text messages.Facebook said Sunday the information is uploaded to secure servers and comes only from Android users who opt-in to allow it. Spokeswomen say the data is not sold or shared with users' friends or outside apps. They say the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others.The company also says in a website posting that it does not collect the content of text messages or calls. A spokeswoman told the Associated Press that Facebook uses the information to rank contacts in Messenger so they are easier to find  and to suggest people to call.AdvertisementUsers get the option to allow data collection when they sign up for Messenger or Facebook Lite  the Facebook posting said. "If you chose to turn this feature on  we will begin to continuously log this information " the posting said.AdvertisementThe data collection can be turned off in a user's settings  and all previously collected call and text history shared on the app will be deleted  Facebook said.The feature was first introduced on Facebook Messenger in 2015 and added later on Facebook Lite.Messages were left Sunday seeking comment about security from Google officials  who make the Android operating system.Reports of the data collection came as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg took out ads in multiple U.S. and British Sunday newspapers to apologize for the Cambridge Analytica scandal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The ads say the social media platform doesn't deserve to hold personal information if it can't protect it.According to the ads  a quiz app built by a Cambridge University researcher leaked Facebook data of millions of people four years ago. Zuckerberg said this was a "breach of trust" and that Facebook is taking steps to make sure it doesn't happen again.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after Cambridge Analytica  a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  got data inappropriately. The social media platform's stock value has dropped over $70 billion since the revelations were first published.Among the newspapers with the ads were The New York Times and The Washington Post in the U.S.  and The Sunday Times and The Sunday Telegraph in the United Kingdom.The ads said Facebook is limiting the data apps received when users sign in. It's also investigating every app that had access to large amounts of data. "We expect there are others. And when we find them  we will ban them and tell everyone affected " the ads stated.Cambridge Analytica got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.AdvertisementThe Trump campaign paid the firm $6 million during the 2016 election  although it has since distanced itself from Cambridge.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  11:32 P.M. E.D.T.
MUMBAI —  Allegations that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official mobile application was sending personal user data to a third party without their consent caused a furore on social media in India and drew criticism from the leader of the main opposition party on Sunday.Modi's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party denied https://twitter.com/BJP4India/status/977811651989680128 the allegations and said the data was being used only for analytics to offer all users the "most contextual content".A security researcher  who has previously highlighted some vulnerabilities in India's national identity card project and who tweets under the pseudonym Elliot Alderson  posted https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977267255309463554 a series of tweets on Saturday stating the app was sending personal user data to a third-party domain that was traced to an American company.The tweets  which come at a time of heightened sensitivity around the alleged misuse of personal data amid the unfolding Facebook-Cambridge Analytica controversy https://www.reuters.com/article/us-facebook-cambridge-analytica-apology/facebooks-zuckerberg-says-sorry-to-britons-with-newspaper-apology-ads-idUSKBN1H10AF  triggered a stir in India on social media.Advertisement"Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App  I give all your data to my friends in American companies " wrote https://twitter.com/RahulGandhi/status/977778259810226177 opposition Congress Party Chief Rahul Gandhi in a Twitter message on Sunday.AdvertisementThe BJP quickly responded on Twitter  saying Gandhi was trying to divert attention. The BJP has accused the Congress of engaging Cambridge Analytica in India  a charge the opposition party has denied.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Alderson  who initially pointed out that the Narendra Modi app was sharing data with a third party without the consent of users  earlier on Sunday posted a new tweet saying the app had "quietly" updated https://twitter.com/fs0c131y/status/977847395743617024 its privacy policy after his previous tweets.Reuters could not independently verify Alderson's claim.Prime Minister Modi has not commented on the issue.BJP said the app - which has seen about 5 million downloads on the Google Android Play Store - allows users access even in a guest mode that does not require them to grant any permissions."The permissions required are all ... cause-specific " the BJP tweeted.(Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy; Editing by Euan Rocha and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  12:44 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO/LONDON —  Opinion polls published on Sunday in the United States and Germany indicated that a majority of the public were losing trust in Facebook over privacy  as the firm ran advertisements in British and U.S. newspapers apologizing to users.Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws  according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday  while a survey published by Bild am Sonntag  Germany’s largest-selling Sunday paper  found 60 percent of Germans fear that Facebook and other social networks are having a negative impact on democracy.Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg apologized for "a breach of trust" in advertisements placed in papers including the Observer in Britain and the New York Times  Washington Post and Wall Street Journal."We have a responsibility to protect your information. If we can't  we don't deserve it " said the advertisement  which appeared in plain text on a white background with a tiny Facebook logo.AdvertisementThe world's largest social media network is coming under growing government scrutiny in Europe and the United States  and is trying to repair its reputation among users  advertisers  lawmakers and investors.AdvertisementThis follows allegations that the British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly gained access to users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.U.S. Senator Mark Warner  the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee  said in an interview on NBC’s Meet the Press" on Sunday that Facebook had not been "fully forthcoming" over how Cambridge Analytica had used Facebook data.Warner repeated calls for Zuckerberg to testify in person before U.S. lawmakers  saying Facebook and other internet companies had been reluctant to confront “the dark underbelly of social media” and how it can be manipulated."BREACH OF TRUST"Zuckerberg acknowledged that an app built by a university researcher had "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014"."This was a breach of trust  and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time " Zuckerberg said  reiterating an apology first made last week in U.S. television interviews.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Facebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week  while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online.The Reuters/Ipsos online poll found that 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information  compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon.com Inc  62 percent who trust Alphabet Inc's Google  60 percent for Microsoft Corp.The poll was conducted from Wednesday through Friday and had 2 237 responses. (https://reut.rs/2G9hvrv)AdvertisementThe German poll published by Bild was conducted by Kantar EMNID  a unit of global advertising holding company WPP  using representative polling methods  the firm said. Overall  only 33 percent found social media had a positive effect on democracy  against 60 percent who believed the opposite.It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook  eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said in an interview. Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith  she said."It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives " she said.Data supplied to Reuters by the Israeli firm SimilarWeb  which measures global online audiences  indicated that Facebook usage in major markets and worldwide remained steady over the past week."Desktop  mobile and app usage has remained steady and well within the expected range " said Gitit Greenberg  SimilarWeb's director of market insights. "It is important to separate frustration from actual tangible impacts to Facebook usage."(Additional reporting by William James in London  Dustin Volz in Washington D.C. and Chris Kahn in New Editing by Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  8:38 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  To get an idea of the data Facebook collects about you  just ask for it. You'll get a file with every photo and comment you've posted  all the ads you've clicked on  stuff you've liked and searched for and everyone you've friended — and unfriended — over the years.This trove of data is used to decide which ads to show you. It also makes using Facebook more seamless and enjoyable — say  by determining which posts to emphasize in your feed  or reminding you of friends' birthdays.Facebook claims to protect all this information  and it lays out its terms in a privacy policy that's relatively clear and concise. But few users bother to read it. You might be surprised at what Facebook's privacy policy allows — and what's left unsaid.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after a Trump-affiliated political consulting firm  Cambridge Analytica  got data inappropriately from millions of Facebook users. While past privacy debacles have centered on what marketers gather on users  the stakes are higher this time because the firm is alleged to have created psychological profiles to influence how people vote or even think about politics and society.AdvertisementFacebook defends its data collection and sharing activities by noting that it's adhering to a privacy policy it shares with users. Thanks largely to years of privacy scandals and pressure from users and regulators  Facebook also offers a complex set of controls that let users limit how their information is used — to a point.AdvertisementYou can turn off ad targeting and see generic ads instead  the way you would on television or in a newspaper. In the ad settings  you'd need to uncheck all your interests  interactions with companies and websites and other personal information you don't want to use in targeting. Of course  if you click on a new interest after this  you'll have to go back and uncheck it in your ad preferences to prevent targeting. It's a tedious task.As Facebook explains  it puts you in target categories based on your activity. So  if you are 35  live in Seattle and have liked an outdoor adventure page  Facebook may show you an ad for a mountain bike shop in your area.But activity isn't limited to pages or posts you like  comments you make and your use of outside apps and websites."If you start typing something and change your mind and delete it  Facebook keeps those and analyzes them too " Zeynep Tufekci  a prominent techno-sociologist  said in a 2017 TED talk .Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.And  increasingly  Facebook tries to match what it knows about you with your offline data  purchased from data brokers or gathered in other ways. The more information it has  the fuller the picture of you it can offer to advertisers. It can infer things about you that you had no intention of sharing — anything from your ethnicity to personality traits  happiness and use of addictive substances  Tufekci said.These types of data collection aren't necessarily explicit in privacy policies or settings.What Facebook does say is that advertisers don't get the raw data. They just tell Facebook what kind of people they want their ads to reach  then Facebook makes the matches and shows the ads.Apps can also collect a lot of data about you  as revealed in the Cambridge Analytica scandal. The firm got the data from a researcher who paid 270 000 Facebook users to complete a psychological profile quiz back in 2014. But the quiz gathered information on their friends as well  bringing the total number of people affected to about 50 million.Facebook says Cambridge Analytica got the data inappropriately — but only because the app said it collected data for research rather than political profiling. Gathering data on friends was permitted at the time  even if they had never installed the app or given explicit consent.AdvertisementIan Bogost  a Georgia Tech communications professor who built a tongue-in-cheek game called "Cow Clicker" in 2010  wrote in The Atlantic recently that abusing the Facebook platform for "deliberately nefarious ends" was easy to do then. What's worse  he said  it was hard to avoid extracting private data.If "you played Cow Clicker  even just once  I got enough of your personal data that  for years  I could have assembled a reasonably sophisticated profile of your interests and behavior " he wrote. "I might still be able to; all the data is still there  stored on my private server  where Cow Clicker is still running  allowing players to keep clicking where a cow once stood."Facebook has since restricted the amount of types of data apps can access. But other types of data collection are still permitted. For this reason  it's a good idea to check all the apps you've given permissions to over the years. You can also do this in your settings.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  5:23 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Facebook Inc  responding to reports in some technology industry media that it has been logging users' call and text history without their permission  said in a statement on Sunday that the function "has always been opt-in only."The social media site said that when the feature is enabled by the user and contact information is uploaded  the platform can then use the given data when a call or text was made or received with Facebook Lite and Facebook Messenger services.Facebook specified that it does not collect the content of calls or text messages and information is securely stored. This data is not sold to third parties  Facebook's statement said."You may have seen some recent reports that Facebook has been logging people's call and SMS (text) history without their permission. This is not the case " Facebook's statement said.AdvertisementThe Verge website reported that some Twitter users said they found months or years of call history data in their downloadable Facebook data file. Ars Technica reported Facebook requested access to contacts  SMS data and call history on Android devices to improve its friend recommendation algorithm.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."Call and text history logging is part of an opt-in feature for people using Messenger. While we receive certain permissions from Android  uploading this information has always been opt-in only " the world's largest social media network said.Advertisement"People have to expressly agree to use this feature " the statement said.The leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee on Friday wrote to Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg detailing new concerns about the social media company's use of data and formally requesting that he testify at a hearing.Facebook is under pressure from governments  investors and advertisers following allegations by a whistleblower that British political consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed users' information to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.(Reporting by Shalini Nagarajan in Bengaluru; editing by Grant McCool)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  11:20 A.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO —  Fewer than half of Americans trust Facebook to obey U.S. privacy laws  according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Sunday  illustrating the challenge facing the social media network after a scandal over its handling of personal information.The poll  taken Wednesday through Friday  also found that fewer Americans trust Facebook than other tech companies that gather user data  such as Apple Inc  Alphabet Inc's Google  Amazon.com Inc  Microsoft Corp and Yahoo.Some 41 percent of Americans trust Facebook to obey laws that protect their personal information  compared with 66 percent who said they trust Amazon  62 percent who trust Google  60 percent for Microsoft and 47 percent for Yahoo.The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States. It gathered responses from 2 237 people and has a credibility interval  a measure of accuracy  of 2 percentage points. (Graphic: https://tmsnrt.rs/2pA8DoG)AdvertisementFacebook  the world's largest social media firm  has been offering apologies as it tries to repair its reputation among users  advertisers  lawmakers and investors for mistakes that let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. (Graphic: Poll data - https://tmsnrt.rs/2pFHBfN)AdvertisementFacebook shares tumbled 14 percent last week  while the hashtag #DeleteFacebook gained traction online and the company's chief executive officer  Mark Zuckerberg  faced demands that he appear before U.S. lawmakers to testify in a hearing.Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said last week that shoring up trust was their priority. "We know this is an issue of trust. We know this is a critical moment for our company " Sandberg told CNBC on Thursday.It is too early to say if distrust will cause people to step back from Facebook  eMarketer analyst Debra Williamson said. Customers of banks or other industries do not necessarily quit after losing faith  she said."It's psychologically harder to let go of a platform like Facebook that's become pretty well ingrained into people's lives " she said.One reason that Facebook and other internet companies collect personal information from users is to deliver advertisements for products and services to people who are most likely to want them.Facebook  with more than 2 billion monthly active users  made almost all its $40.6 billion in revenue last year from advertising.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The poll found that many people take a dim view of those "targeted" advertisements.Some 63 percent said they would like to see "less targeted advertising" in the future  while 9 percent said they wanted more. When asked to compare them with traditional forms of advertising  41 percent said targeted ads are "worse" while 21 percent said they are "better.""I think they make a lot of assumptions that are not true " poll respondent Maria Curran  56  who lives near Manchester  New Hampshire  said in a follow-up interview.Advertisement"It's like if I show an interest in healthy eating  all of a sudden all of the ads are about weight control and exercise and how to lose weight. I just get inundated " she said.Curran said she knows online retailer Amazon.com also collects her information for targeted marketing  but that it is less annoying because it is a shopping site  not a place for personal conversations.Another poll respondent  Kamaal Greene  26  said he likes targeted ads better than traditional ones because they provide a service  steering him to products he wants."A while ago I was looking for a special kind of glove for my job " said Greene  a firefighter from Detroit."I put it in my Amazon cart and forgot about it. Then  later  the ad popped up on ... Facebook  and I was like 'oh shoot.' It reminded me and I clicked on it and bought it."A plurality of adults said they would like the government to take a bigger role in overseeing the industry's handling of user information. According to the poll  46 percent of adults said they want more government regulation  while 17 percent said they want less. Another 20 percent said they wanted no change  and the remaining 18 percent said they did not know.(Reporting by Chris Kahn in New York and David Ingram in San Francisco; Editing by Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  12:41 P.M. E.D.T.
SAN FRANCISCO —  The quartet of technology stocks that has driven Wall Street indices to record highs in recent years may be breaking up  possibly undermining one of the best growth stories in a nine-year bull market.Facebook and Google-parent Alphabet tumbled this week as the benchmark S&P 500 index fell back toward lows seen in February  when the index gave back more than 10 percent in 10 days after reaching a record high in January.Netflix and Amazon.com  which along with Facebook and Alphabet make up the so-called "FANG" stocks  did not do as badly as the S&P 500 index this week  falling 4.0 percent  compared to the index's 6.0 per cent fall.But growing concerns about potential government regulation in the U.S. and Europe in response to privacy issues have investors assessing whether they may be forced to choose between those technology stocks leading the new economy.Advertisement"The big  consumer-facing tech companies have been stock market leaders for years  and this could be the beginning of the end of that leadership. However  the long-term tech growth story is far from over " Guild Investment Management Executive Vice President Tim Shirata wrote in a note this week.AdvertisementThe outcry over Facebook's handling of users' data this week has bled $75 billion from the social media company's stock market value  with concerns about potential regulation of internet companies also hurting Alphabet.Facebook fell 13 percent for the week and is down nearly 20 percent from its record high  while Alphabet lost nearly 10 percent this week and is 14 percent off its record high.Amazon lost nearly 10 percent also for the week but is only 8 percent off its record  while Netflix lost 5.4 percent and is nearly 10 percent from its high.Apple  which became a stock portfolio cornerstone following the iPhone's debut in 2007  is also about 10 percent off its record high.Amazon this week overtook Alphabet as the world's second largest company by market capitalization at around $747 billion compared to $730 billion for Alphabet  but is still behind the largest company Apple worth $860 billion  according to Reuters data."The FANG complex needs to go away " said Joel Kulina  senior vice president of institutional cash equities at Wedbush. "You can't compare Facebook and Google to Amazon anymore because they're going in different directions and disrupting different parts of the world."Illustrative of the consumer and political backlash against Facebook  the world's largest social media network  the verified Facebook page of rocket company SpaceX disappeared on Friday  minutes after its founder and Silicon Valley billionaire Elon Musk promised on Twitter to take down the page when challenged by a user.AdvertisementSince February 2013  when CNBC television host Jim Cramer popularized the term FANG to describe the four must-own stocks  each has provided massive rewards to investors  with Facebook and Amazon gaining over 400 percent  Netflix climbing over 1 000 percent  and Alphabet nearly tripling its stock price.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.STILL MOSTLY BULLISHCriticism about the misuse of Facebook and Alphabet's platforms during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign has worried investors for several months.European governments are already taking action to deal with risks to the privacy of user data  as well to limit what is seen as unfair competition in a move reminiscent of regulatory action against Microsoft nearly 20 years ago.Regulatory risk became a bigger issue this week after the revelation that Facebook mistakenly let 50 million users' data get into the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica.Longer term though investors remain mostly bulllish on all four stocks and this week's privacy scandal has not led analysts to meaningfully change their expectations for Facebook or Alphabet's stocks.Investors disagree about which FANG stocks will lead in the future.Gullane Capital Partners  a hedge fund in Memphis  Tennessee  owns Amazon and Alphabet  and has occasionally shorted Netflix in recent years  betting the streaming company's meteoric rise would be followed by a steep pullback."I want to own Amazon for the next 25 years. It's the most powerful business since Wal-Mart or Microsoft in their heydays " said Gullane Capital Managing Partner Trip Miller.Miller attributed recent selling in Facebook  which his fund does not own  more to profit-taking than to a seismic change in how the company is viewed on Wall Street.The growing divergence in views on the four Wall Street powerhouses comes as investors more broadly reduce their appetite for the technology stocks which have led Wall Street's rally in recent years.AdvertisementThe Philadelphia Semiconductor Index on Friday slumped 3.3 percent  hammered by fears of a trade war with China after President Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.In the latest week ended Wednesday March 21  U.S.-based technology sector funds attracted just $158 million of net new cash  down sharply from inflows of $1.95 billion the previous week  according to Lipper data on Thursday.Guild Investment Management's Shirata recommends buying technology stocks less likely to catch the eye of government regulators  and he pointed to networking  videogames and cloud computing companies."In all these areas  prospects for long-term growth still look stunningly good." he wrote.(Reporting by Noel Randewich; Editing by Alden Bentley)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement
Ask a Showrunner By                     
 JEREMY EGNER
 
MARCH 25  2018
“Silicon Valley” returns to HBO Sunday after a particularly terrible week for Silicon Valley  as Facebook dealt with fallout from revelations about the Cambridge Analytica data breach and Uber notched a horrific milestone: The first pedestrian killed by a driverless car.“The tech world of four or five years ago is definitely different than now ” said Mike Judge  the creator of the show. The public conception of Silicon Valley as a place of whiz kids in hoodies “boldly claiming all the time that they were making the world a better place” has been replaced with something darker  he said.For its fifth season  TV’s “Silicon Valley” has undergone changes of its own  albeit of the less tragic variety. The largely luckless Pied Piper crew finally finds itself in charge  as well as a man down. T. J. Miller  the excitable comic who played the feckless blowhard Erlich Bachman  last seen in a Tibetan opium den in Season 4  left the show  bashing colleagues in interviews on the way out. (In December  after Mr. Miller had quit the series  he was the subject of sexual assault allegations involving a former college classmate; he has denied the allegations.)Mr. Judge was previously best known for creating the long-running “King of the Hill” as well as diverse cult favorites that have had equally lengthy afterlives  like “Beavis and Butt-Head ” “Office Space” and “Idiocracy.” The new direction of “Silicon Valley ” along with the changes and struggles in the tech world  has him reassessing his original plan to end the show after six seasons. “It’s taken on a second wind ” he said.Advertisement“How many seasons did ‘Dallas’ go?” he added. “I think it could go that long.” (For the record: 14.)In a phone conversation  Mr. Judge discussed the new season  Mr. Miller’s departure  possible reboots of “King of the Hill” and “Idiocracy” and which of his creations are his favorites. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.For the first time  the Pied Piper crew is running things. Did that change how you approached the story?AdvertisementIt felt pretty natural. In a way  some of this to me is analogous to stuff that happens in Hollywood. I started out making animated shorts in my house by myself. Then when “Beavis and Butt-Head” happened  I had people fighting over it — there was the stress of  am I getting screwed here? And eventually I had about as many people working for me on “Beavis and Butt-Head” as Richard [Thomas Middleditch] does in Season 5  and that became just as stressful. I’m not someone who enjoys telling people to do something they don’t want to do  and Richard is the same way. So there’s plenty of comedy that can come from stuff like that.How did T. J. Miller’s departure affect the show?Had he left after Season 1 or 2  it would have been really rough to try to make it work. But now it’s actually kind of perfect timing because we were having trouble keeping him in the story. Not because of him  just because his character is not a programmer. He’s just the guy who owned the house. We had done a bunch of comedy about that  about how he’s kind of marginal and trying to make himself relevant. We have a lot of really great characters and actors  and I try to service them all. So it actually freed us up in the writing. [Mr. Judge declined to comment on reports that Mr. Miller had been a disruptive presence on the set.]What did you make of his bomb-throwing exit? [Laughs.] It seemed very much like T. J. — I’m sure he wouldn’t have it any other way. He’s a brilliantly funny guy. I’ve seen these quotes — he’s always been a good put-down artist. But yeah  I don’t know what to really make of it  and it’s not any of my business anymore  you know?Jian-Yang [Jimmy O. Yang] has been the new [expletive] of the house for a while  and he becomes a bigger one  like on a grander scale. And there are a lot of other characters picking up the slack. Laurie [Suzanne Cryer]  there’s more of her and Monica [Amanda Crew]. There’s definitely a lot more Jared [Zach Woods]. And we’ve got a really great robot coming up.The show started off making fun of the goofy grandiosity of the tech industry  but the current perception of Silicon Valley is more critical. Has the show changed as a result?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Because we write it several months ahead of when it airs  we were already kind of noticing  just because we talk to a lot of people [in the industry] and a lot of them are just starting to realize the lack of conscience. And if they’re not realizing that  people are pointing it out to them. I noticed when I worked in the tech world that there’s just this belief that every gain they make is for the good of mankind  and never really questioning it. I’m not saying they’re all horrible people  but they look at the task at hand and don’t really consider whether it’s right or wrong.Or whether people want their data to be sold to political operatives.Yeah  and actually we deal with that this season  with what Richard’s building. It’s like that quote: If you’re getting the service for free  then you’re the product. Those servers and all the infrastructure and engineers cost money. So  you’re paying by them looking for keywords in your email and popping ads up.Which is familiar to anyone who’s had a sneaker ad follow them around online.Yeah a friend of mine told me through text message what hotel he was going to be staying at in Nashville  and the next thing I know  there’s an ad for it on my Facebook page. It’s all tied together.Fox has said it wants to bring back “King of the Hill.” Would you be involved in that?Yeah  if they did. There have been a couple discussions about it  and about how we would do it  but nothing concrete yet. I think you’d have to have Bobby and all of them be older. The Simpsons are such iconic characters; Bart could be that age forever because it’s a more surreal show. But with “King of the Hill” being on 13 years  I think people were really starting to wonder why Bobby’s still the same age.AdvertisementAnother old film of yours  “Idiocracy ” from 2006  has become a common reference point for  well  many things happening right now. Do people mention this to you?On Twitter  like all day long. There was at one point talk about possibly a series  an animated series  a reboot like that. There were talks of musicals. I would like to have another stab at it one way or another. It was almost like a bigger concept than it was a movie — it was difficult to make and probably should have been a TV show. But yeah  I get it all the time  which is nice. But I don’t really know what to make of it  or how much of it relates to the movie when people throw around the word “idiocracy” on Twitter.Well when the C.E.O. of Carl’s Jr. gets nominated for a cabinet position —That’s what was really weird for me  specific things like that. There’s Carl’s Jr. [The company had a notably unflattering presence in the film.] There was the W.W.E. thing. [The president in the movie was a former professional wrestler; in real life  President Trump appeared in a World Wrestling Entertainment match in 2007.]Even when we were shooting the movie  the wardrobe designer showed me these shoes — they weren’t out in the world yet. And she said  “This is a start-up  they’re making these shoes and they’re going to look completely ridiculous.” Plastic shoes with holes in them. And I said to her  “The only thing I’m worried about is  what if these things blow up and by the time the movie comes out  they’re everywhere?” And she said  “Oh  that’s never going to happen. No one is going to buy these things.” And then  the movie comes out  and they are all wearing Crocs  and those shoes were just becoming huge. So  I think that was a sign that maybe a lot of these dumb things are going to come to pass.It was the Croc in the coal mine.[Laughs.] Oh man.You have a remarkable track record of creating things that seem to stick with people  whether it’s “Idiocracy” or “Office Space” or characters like Hank and Bobby Hill. Do you have a personal favorite?That’s a hard one to pick. I’m probably a little partial to Beavis. Beavis and Butt-Head  but mostly Beavis. I’d say Lumbergh [from “Office Space”] is another one. I’d say those two probably come to mind the most because … well  I don’t know.Well for Lumbergh — I’m old enough to remember when an office job sounded great. I worked at Jack in the Box and worked construction  those kinds of jobs  and I remember thinking  “Oh my God  you can work in an office? That would be wonderful.” And then the first time I did it  I had that type of boss — that passive-aggressive boss. I would rather have a guy yelling at me on a construction site. I had done an animated version but the way Gary Cole played that character  I thought that was something really great that hadn’t been done yet. So  I don’t know. I’m pretty proud of that one.An earlier version of this article included a quotation from Mike Judge that misstated Google’s Gmail ad policy. Google stopped scanning its consumer  or free  email accounts for the purpose of targeted ads in 2017.A version of this interview appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: TV’s ‘Silicon Valley’  Is Changing  Too.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »