AdvertisementBy ERIC SCHMITT  HELENE COOPER and ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump  having this week signaled a possible withdrawal of American troops from Syria  has ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts there while the administration reassesses its role in the conflict  administration officials said Friday.The freeze on stabilization and humanitarian aid came as two members of the United States-led coalition fighting in Syria were killed — one American soldier and one British — and five others were wounded by a bomb in a late-night attack  the military said on Friday.The attack took place near Manbij in northern Syria  and is believed to have been carried out by remnants of the Islamic State fighting force  a senior American military official said.A statement posted by the United States Central Command  which directs American forces in the region  said “an improvised explosive device” detonated about 11 p.m. local time on Thursday.AdvertisementThe statement did not reveal the identities of the service members involved  how seriously the survivors were hurt or where in Syria the attack occurred. The American-led coalition includes about 30 countries  but only a few have forces on the ground.Advertisement“The names of the deceased will be released at the discretion of the pertinent national authorities ” the statement said. “Details pertaining to the incident are being withheld pending further investigation.”A statement released on Friday by the Ministry of Defense in London confirmed that the second soldier killed in the blast was British  and that the mission was to counter fighters with the Islamic State.Coalition forces have been deployed to Syria to fight  alongside Kurdish militia allies  against the Islamic State. But with that group largely routed  the seven-year civil war in Syria has entered a dangerous new phase.Two American allies  Turkey and the Kurds  who control parts of northern Syria  are fighting each other. And the Kurds and coalition forces are engaged in a tense standoff with the Syrian government  along with its allies — Russia  Iran and Iranian-backed militias.On Thursday  President Trump suggested that the United States could pull its approximately 2 000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” The comments surprised Defense Department officials who have maintained that some kind of American presence in parts of Syria may be necessary to avoid recreating the conditions that led to the rise of the Islamic State — and also to avoid ceding influence in the country to Russia.“Very soon  we’re coming out ” Mr. Trump said during a rally in Ohio. “We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”The suspension of funds for recovery efforts in Syria comes as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict there  a State Department official said on Friday. The freeze on funding was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There will be meetings on this next week ” said the official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a policy review was continuing. “Obviously  we  State  hope that this decision is reversed.”AdvertisementA National Security Council official explained the White House’s position: “In line with the president’s guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis.”Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had committed the aid in February in Kuwait at a meeting of countries who have joined together to defeat the Islamic State.Pentagon officials in the past few months have said repeatedly that a complete withdrawal of American troops could leave a void. On Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground ” they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.It was unclear how the death of the American service member in the newest attack would influence Mr. Trump’s thinking on a possible American withdrawal. Beyond that  the Islamic State remains in the eastern half of Syria  and Defense Department officials caution that suggestions the group has been completely routed understates the Islamic State presence in Syria.As if to demonstrate the complexity of the situation in Syria  President Emmanuel Macron of France sought on Thursday to position his country as a bridge between the Kurdish fighters and Turkey by serving as a mediator in talks — an effort that was rejected by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Mr. Macron told a delegation of that included a number of Syrian Kurds that France “honored the sacrifices and the determining role” played by Kurdish fighters in the battle against the Islamic State  which has largely been driven out of Syria  and he expressed concern about Afrin  the northern enclave where Turkey recently pushed out the Kurds.He stopped short  however  at least in his public statements  from offering to back the Kurds militarily. It was a similar balancing act as the one taken in February by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian  who when asked about Turkey’s incursion in northern Syria said that France had already warned that it was “not acceptable to add war to war” in Syria.Mr. Erdogan ridiculed his French counterpart on Friday  saying that he met with Mr. Macron last week and that the French leader was saying “weird things” that required Mr. Erdogan to say  “tough.”“We don’t need a negotiator ” Mr. Erdogan said. “Since when has Turkey had an issue of sitting down at a table with terror groups? Where did you get this? You can sit down with terror groups  but Turkey fights against terror as it did in Afrin. You keep going on like this. Who do you think you are that you can utter the word negotiating between Turkey and terror groups?”Eric Schmitt and Helene Cooper reported from Washington and Alissa J. Rubin from Paris. Richard Pérez-Peña and Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Orders Freeze on Syria Financing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:29 P.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday France had taken the wrong approach toward Syria  after French President Emmanuel Macron promised a Kurdish-dominated force that Paris would help stabilize the northeast of the country."We are deeply saddened by the completely wrong approach shown by France  which we hope is a result of misperceptions " Erdogan said.(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu; Writing by Dominic Evans and Edmund Blair)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — A British soldier has been killed by an improvised explosive device in Syria  Sky News reported on Friday  quoting a U.K. Ministry of Defence spokesperson.Earlier  U.S. officials said an American service member was one of two people killed by an improvised bomb in Syria overnight  the first coalition service members to die in an attack there this year. (Reporting by Larry King)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  12:53 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON/BAGHDAD —  A U.S. and a British service member in the U.S.-led coalition battling Islamic State were killed by an improvised explosive device in Syria  U.S and British officials said on Friday.They are the first coalition service members to be killed or wounded in an attack this year.Two U.S. officials  speaking on the condition of anonymity and citing initial information  said one of the people killed in the blast on Thursday blast was an American. They said the incident took place near the city of Manbij in northern Syria.Later  the British Ministry of Defence said a soldier embedded with U.S. forces was also killed. The soldier's family had been informed  a ministry spokesperson said.Earlier on Friday  a coalition statement said two personnel had been killed and five wounded in Syria  but did not provide their nationalities. The wounded were evacuated for treatment  according to the statement.AdvertisementThe explosion happened on Thursday night  the coalition statement said.Manbij has largely been cleared of Islamic State and is significant because Turkey  which stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin after an offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia  has repeatedly threatened to push its operations farther east to Manbij.AdvertisementAbout 10 coalition personnel have been killed in non-combat-related incidents since Jan. 1  including seven Americans who died in a helicopter crash in Iraq earlier this month.Islamic State militants continue to carry out bombings  ambushes and assassinations in Syria and Iraq despite the collapse last year of the cross-border "caliphate" declared in 2014 by their leader  Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi  whose whereabouts are unknown.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The United States says it has about 5 200 troops in Iraq  deployed alongside Iraqi armed forces. Some 2 000 U.S. troops are in Syria  allied to a Kurdish-led alliance that holds the largest swath of territory still outside the control of forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad.The American casualty comes a day after President Donald Trump said the United States would be leaving Syria "very soon." The State Department said it was not aware of any plans to withdraw from Syria.Senior officials have said there is a need for a longer-term U.S. commitment in Syria.Last year  U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said he expected to see a larger U.S. civilian presence in Syria  including contractors and diplomats  as the fight against Islamic State militants nears its end and the focus turns toward rebuilding and ensuring the militants do not return  .Mattis has previously stated that U.S. forces will stay in Syria as long as Islamic State fighters want to fight and prevent the return of an “ISIS 2.0.”(Reporting by Idrees Ali and Maher Chmaytelli; Editing by Larry King and Bill Trott)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:29 P.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  Turkey said on Friday that a French pledge to help stabilize a region of northern Syria controlled by Kurdish-dominated forces amounted to support for terrorism and could make France a "target of Turkey".French backing for the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF)  spearheaded by the Kurdish YPG militia  has angered Ankara at a time when it is fighting the YPG in northern Syria and considers it a terrorist organization.President Tayyip Erdogan said France had taken a "completely wrong approach" on Syria  adding that he exchanged heated words with his French counterpart  Emmanuel Macron  last week.The split with France is the latest rift between Turkey under Erdogan and its NATO allies in the West.AdvertisementTurkey has long complained about U.S. support for the SDF  among a number of irritants to ties with the leading NATO power. Last year it compared the German and Dutch authorities to Nazis for restricting pro-Erdogan demonstrations during a campaign for a referendum to give him greater powers.AdvertisementThe White House said President Donald Trump  who added fresh uncertainty on Thursday when he said that the United States would be "coming out of Syria" very soon  spoke to Erdogan on Friday "to discuss regional developments and the strategic partnership between the United States and Turkey"."The two leaders expressed support for continued efforts to increase cooperation between their two countries  to advance shared interests as NATO allies  and to work through issues that affect the bilateral relationship " a White House statement said.Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said the French stance was setting Paris on a collision course with Ankara."Those who enter into cooperation and solidarity with terror groups against Turkey ... will  like the terrorists  become a target of Turkey " Bozdag  who is also the Turkish government spokesman  wrote on Twitter. "We hope France does not take such an irrational step."Macron met an SDF delegation on Thursday and gave assurances of French support to stabilize northern Syria. A presidential source later said France could increase its military contribution to the U.S.-led coalition which - alongside the  SDF - is fighting Islamic State in Syria.The United States has 2 000 troops in SDF-held territory  and France also has some troops there as part of the coalition.Ankara considers the YPG fighters in the SDF to be an extension of Kurdish militants who have waged a decades-old insurgency in southeast Turkey.AdvertisementTurkish forces drove the YPG from the northwestern Syrian town of Afrin nearly two weeks ago and Erdogan says Ankara is preparing to extend operations along hundreds of miles of border  including areas where the American forces are deployed.The Afrin operation has already drawn international criticism  notably from Macron. Ankara  meanwhile  has said it expects its allies to move their troops out of the way of a Turkish advance."We have no intention to harm soldiers of allied nations  but we cannot allow terrorists to roam freely (in northern Syria) " Erdogan said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.One U.S. service member and one other member of the U.S.-led coalition were killed by a bomb in Syria overnight  the first to die in an attack this year.TRUMP SURPRISETrump's remark on Thursday that the United States would be "coming out of Syria" appeared to take his own administration by surprise.U.S. officials have said in recent months that Washington planned to keep an open-ended presence in northern Syria  to support stability in the SDF-controlled region  prevent any Islamic State resurgence and counter Iranian influence.SDF spokesman Kino Gabriel said the force had not been informed of any U.S. withdrawal plan."Our work and coordination (with the coalition) is continuing " Gabriel told Reuters in a written message.Asked whether U.S. forces had been informed of a decision to withdraw or were preparing to do so  a spokesman for the coalition said he would not comment on future operations.A PYD member in Paris said Macron had promised at Thursday's meeting with the SDF to send more troops to northern Syria  provide humanitarian assistance and push a diplomatic solution.AdvertisementThe French presidency did not confirm that Macron had pledged more troops  but the presidential source said France could bolster its military intervention in Syria "within the existing framework" of the U.S.-led coalition.The presidency also said Macron was offering to mediate between Turkey and the SDF - a suggestion Erdogan dismissed."Do not engage in things beyond you  we do not need a mediator " he said  responding to the French offer in remarks to members of his ruling AK Party in Ankara. "Who are you to speak of mediation between Turkey and a terrorist organization?"Accusing Paris of appeasing terrorism  he said Macron would be held accountable for his policy by his own people."We hope France doesn't come to us for help when the terrorists running from Syria and Iraq fill their country after being encouraged by their policy " he said.Erdogan spoke last week with Macron about the French president's criticism of Turkey's Afrin campaign."He was saying weird things and so  even if it was a bit high-octane  I had to tell him some things " Erdogan said. "It is not anyone's place to portray our armed forces as something we do not find acceptable."(Additional reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier in Paris  Tom Perry in Beirut  Maher Chmaytelli in Baghdad and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Writing by Dominic Evans; Editing by Peter Graff and Susan Thomas)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  6:29 A.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France could adapt its military operation as part of the U.S.-led coalition in Syria if it deems it useful to achieve its objectives in the fight against Islamic State  a French presidential source said on Friday."If the president felt that  in order to achieve our goals against Islamic State  we needed a moment to adapt our military intervention  then we should do it  but it would be within the existing framework " the source said.(Reporting by Marine Pennetier; writing by John Irish; editing by Richard Lough)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  9:48 A.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  One of the personnel killed with an improvised explosive device in Syria on Thursday was a U.S. service member  two U.S. officials told Reuters.On Friday  the coalition fighting Islamic State said in a statement that two personnel from the coalition had been killed  without giving the nationalities.Two U.S. officials  speaking on the condition of anonymity and citing initial information  said one of the personnel was American and the incident took place near the Syrian city of Manbij. They declined to say which country the other individual was from.(Reporting by Idrees Ali; Editing by Andrea Ricci)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 30  2018  11:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's unscripted remark this week about pulling out of Syria "very soon " while at odds with his own policy  was not a one-off: For weeks  top advisers have been fretting about an overly hasty withdrawal as the president has increasingly told them privately he wants out  U.S. officials said.Only two months ago  Trump's aides thought they'd persuaded him that the U.S. needed to keep its presence in Syria open-ended — not only because the Islamic State group has yet to be entirely defeated  but also because the resulting power vacuum could be filled by other extremist groups or by Iran. Trump signed off on major speech in January in which Secretary of State Rex Tillerson laid out the new strategy and declared "it is vital for the United States to remain engaged in Syria."But by mid-February  Trump was telling his top aides in meetings that as soon as victory can be declared against IS  he wanted American troops out of Syria  said the officials. Alarm bells went off at the State Department and the Pentagon  where officials have been planning for a gradual  methodical shift from a military-led operation to a diplomatic mission to start rebuilding basic infrastructure like roads and sewers in the war-wracked country.The officials weren't authorized to comment publicly and demanded anonymity.In one sign that Trump is serious about reversing course and withdrawing from Syria  the White House this week put on hold some $200 million in US funding for stabilization projects in Syria  officials said. The money  to have been spent by the State Department for infrastructure projects like power  water and roads  had been announced by outgoing Secretary  of State Rex Tillerson at an aid conference last month in Kuwait.AdvertisementThe officials said the hold  first reported by The Wall Street Journal  is not necessarily permanent and will be discussed at senior-level inter-agency meetings next week.AdvertisementThe State Department said it continually reviews appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized. And the agency said it continues to work with the international community  members of the Coalition  and our partners on the ground to provide needed stabilization support to vulnerable areas in Syria."The United States is working everyday on the ground and with the international community to help stabilize those areas liberated from ISIS and identify ways to move forward with reconstruction once there has been a peaceful political transition away from (Syrian President Bashar) Assad " according to a statement from the Department.Trump's first public suggestion he was itching to pull out came in a news conference with visiting Australian Prime Minister Alastair Campbell on Feb. 23  when Trump said the U.S. was in Syria to "get rid of ISIS and go home." On Thursday  in a domestic policy speech in Ohio  Trump went further."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon — very soon  we're coming out " Trump said.The public declaration caught U.S. national security agencies off-guard and unsure whether Trump was formally announcing a new  unexpected change in policy. Inundated by inquiries from journalists and foreign officials  the Pentagon and State Department reached out to the White House's National Security Council for clarification.The White House's ambiguous response  officials said: Trump's words speak for themselves."The mission of the Department of Defense to defeat ISIS has not changed " said Maj. Adrian Rankine-Galloway  a Pentagon spokesman.Still  without a clear directive from the president  planning has not started for a withdrawal from Syria  officials said  and Trump has not advocated a specific timetable.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For Trump  who campaigned on an "America First" mantra  Syria is just the latest foreign arena where his impulse has been to limit the U.S. role. Like with NATO and the United Nations  Trump has called for other governments to step up and share more of the burden so that Washington doesn't foot the bill. His administration has been crisscrossing the globe seeking financial commitments from other countries to fund reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq  but with only limited success.AdvertisementYet it's unclear how Trump's impulse to pull out could be affected by recent staff shake-ups on his national security team. Tillerson and former national security adviser H.R. McMaster  both advocates for keeping a U.S. presence in Syria  were recently fired  creating questions about the longevity of the plan Tillerson announced in his Stanford University speech in January. But Trump also replaced McMaster with John Bolton  a vocal advocate for U.S. intervention and aggressive use of the military overseas.The abrupt change in the president's thinking has drawn concern both inside and outside the United States.Other nations that make up the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS fear that Trump's impulse to pull out hastily would allow the notoriously resourceful IS militants to regroup  several European diplomats said. That concern has been heightened by the fact that U.S.-backed ground operations against remaining IS militants in Syria were put on hold earlier this month.The ground operations had to be paused because Kurdish fighters who had been spearheading the campaign against IS shifted to a separate fight with Turkish forces  who began combat operations in the town of Afrin against Kurds who are considered by Ankara to be terrorists that threaten Turkey's security."This is a serious and growing concern " State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said this month.Beyond just defeating IS  there are other strategic U.S. objectives that could be jeopardized by a hasty withdrawal  officials said  chiefly those related to Russia and Iran.Israel  America's closest Mideast ally  and other regional nations like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are deeply concerned about the influence of Iran and its allies  including the Shiite militant group Hezbollah  inside Syria. The U.S. military presence in Syria has been seen as a buffer against unchecked Iranian activity  and especially against Tehran's desire to establish a contiguous land route from Iran to the Mediterranean coast in Lebanon.An American withdrawal would also likely cede Syria to Russia  which along with Iran has been propping up Syrian President Bashar Assad's forces and would surely fill the void left behind by the U.S. That prospect has alarmed countries like France  which has historic ties to the Levant.In calling for a withdrawal "very soon " Trump may be overly optimistic in his assessment of how quickly the anti-IS campaign can be wrapped up  the officials said. Although the group has been driven from basically all of the territory it once controlled in Iraq and 95 percent of its former territory in Syria  the remaining five percent is becoming increasingly difficult to clear and could take many months  the officials said.Advertisement___Associated Press writers Robert Burns and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  11:38 P.M. E.D.T.
WEST PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump has told advisers he wants an early exit of U.S. troops from Syria  two senior administration officials said on Friday  a stance that may put him at odds with U.S. military officials who see the fight against Islamic State as nowhere near complete.A National Security Council meeting is set for early next week to discuss the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State in Syria  according to U.S. officials familiar with the plan.Two other administration officials confirmed a Wall Street Journal report on Friday that said Trump had ordered the State Department to freeze more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts in Syria while his administration reassesses Washington's role in the conflict there.Trump called for the freeze after reading a news report that the U.S. had recently committed an additional $200 million to stabilize areas recaptured from Islamic State  the paper said.AdvertisementThe funding was announced by departing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in February at a meeting in Kuwait of the global coalition against Islamic State.AdvertisementThe decision to freeze the funds was in line with Trump's declaration during a speech in Richfield  Ohio  on Thursday  where he said it was time for America to exit Syria.A spokesperson for the White House's National Security Council said that "in line with the President's guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis."Trump is spending Easter weekend at his Palm Beach  Florida  estate."We'll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon " Trump said on Thursday  based on allied victories against Islamic State militants."Let the other people take care of it now. Very soon  very soon  we're coming out " Trump said. "We're going to get back to our country  where we belong  where we want to be."Trump's comments came as France said on Friday it could increase its military presence in Syria to bolster the U.S.-led campaign.While the Pentagon has estimated that Islamic State has lost about 98 percent of the territory it once held in Iraq and Syria  U.S. military officials have warned that the militants could regain the freed areas quickly unless they are stabilized.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump still needs to be convinced of that  said the U.S. officials with knowledge of the NSC meeting.U.S. DELIBERATIONSThe two administration officials who confirmed the Wall Street Journal report and spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity said Trump's comments on Thursday reflected internal deliberations with advisers in which he has wondered aloud why U.S. forces should remain with the militants on their heels.AdvertisementTrump has made clear that "once ISIS and its remnants are destroyed that the United States would be looking toward having countries in the region playing a larger role in ensuring security and leaving it at that " one official said.Such a policy is nowhere near complete  however  the official added.The second official said Trump's national security advisers have told him U.S. forces should stay in small numbers for at least a couple of years to make sure gains against the militants are held and ensure Syria does not essentially become a permanent Iranian base.Top national security aides discussed Syria in a White House meeting recently but have yet to settle on a strategy for U.S. forces in Syria to recommend to Trump going forward  the official said."So far he has not given an order to just get out " the official said. About 2 000 U.S. troops are deployed in Syria.Trump last year went through a similar wrenching debate over whether to withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan  ultimately agreeing to keep them there but only after repeatedly raising questions of why they should stay.Trump's view on Syria may put him at odds with those of former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton  named by Trump a week ago to replace H.R. McMaster as White House national security adviser.(Additional reporting by Lesley Wroughton  John Walcott and David Brunnstrom in Washington; Editing by David Gregorio   Susan Thomas and Tom Hogue)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 30  2018  7:44 A.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France could increase its military presence to help a U.S.-led coalition fighting Islamic State in Syria and warned that a Turkish advance on a town controlled by Kurdish-backed militias would be "unacceptable"  a presidential source said on Friday.President Emmanuel Macron has been criticised at home for his response to a Turkish operation against the YPG militia  with opponents saying he has abandoned the Kurds.The YPG militia makes up a large portion of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF)  which have been at the forefront of the coalition's strategy to defeat the hard-line militants.After Macron's meeting on Thursday with an SDF delegation that included the YPG  its political arm the PYD  and Christian and Arab officials  a senior Kurdish official said Macron had promised to send more troops to the area as part of the coalition's efforts  provide humanitarian assistance and "mediate" between the Kurds and Ankara.AdvertisementThat drew a furious response from NATO ally Turkey  which considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state within Turkey.AdvertisementSpeaking to reporters to clarify the Kurdish comments  a French presidential source said Paris had seen a resurgence of Islamic State in northeast Syria and would continue its fight against the group with the SDF."France doesn't foresee any new military operation on the ground in northern Syria outside of the international coalition " the source said."(But) if the president felt that  in order to achieve our goals against Islamic State  we needed a moment to bolster our military intervention  then we should do it  but it would be within the existing framework " the source said  without elaborating.A senior Turkish official had said on Friday a French pledge to help stabilise a region of northern Syria controlled by Kurdish-dominated forces amounted to support for terrorism and could make France a "target of Turkey".Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Macron had said in December he expected the campaign against Islamic State in Syria to be completed in February.Asked about comments by U.S. President Donald Trump that he might disengage from Syria "very soon"  the source said Paris had at this stage not received any official request to send reinforcements.France  like the United States  has already extended arms and training to the YPG-led militia in the fight against Islamic State  and has dozens of special forces based in the region  which has infuriated Turkey.Turkey stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week  and has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to the SDF-controlled Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.AdvertisementMacron's office on Thursday said the young leader had offered to mediate between the Turks and the SDF  which it said had distanced itself from the PKK."We will continue the dialogue with Turkey  it is an important and essential partner to find a solution to the Syrian civil war " the source said  responding to a barrage of angry rhetoric on Friday from Ankara.However  he warned that any military advance from Turkey to Manbij would be "unacceptable".(Reporting by Marine Pennetier; Writing by Richard Lough; Editing by Luke Baker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »