AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:18 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed plans for a summit on Syria next week during a phone call with Turkish leader Tayyip Erdogan on Tuesday  the Kremlin said in a statement.The summit is due to be held in Ankara  attended by Turkey  Russia and Iran.(Reporting and writing by Denis Pinchuk; Editing by Peter Graff)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  7:15 P.M. E.D.T.
UNITED NATIONS —  U.N. Security Council members vented frustrations and traded blame Tuesday over their unheeded demand for a 30-day cease-fire in Syria  with the U.S. envoy calling it "a day of shame."With a unanimous Feb. 24 vote  the council called for a 30-day break in hostilities "without delay" to enable humanitarian aid and medical evacuations as Syria enters its eighth year of civil war. But bombings didn't stop  though key Syrian ally Russia arranged five-hour daily "humanitarian pauses" in the besieged Damascus suburbs known as eastern Ghouta."History will not be kind when it judges the effectiveness of this council in relieving the suffering of the Syrian people " U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said  adding that it "should be a day of shame for every member."Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok  whose country holds the council presidency  called it "a humiliation" for the U.N.'s most powerful body to be unable to enforce an order for humanitarian aid access.AdvertisementSince the resolution passed  the U.N. and other groups have delivered aid to about 137 000 people around Syria — an improvement since earlier this year but still "crumbs" compared to what is needed  U.N. humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock said.AdvertisementAnd "5.6 million Syrians in acute need cannot live on crumbs " he added.Last month  the Syrian government launched a big military operation with Russian air support seeking to retake eastern Ghouta  which pro-government forces have besieged since 2013. After weeks of heavy bombardment  two rebel groups and al-Qaida fighters withdrew from their strongholds  and Syrian troops are now trying to push rebels out of a last one  the town of Douma.More than 1 600 civilians have been killed in the recent government offensive  according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Over 120 000 people have left eastern Ghouta.Critics say the evacuations amount to forced displacement  and the U.N. and the International Committee of the Red Cross have refused to facilitate them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Haley accused the Syrian government  Russia and Syrian ally Iran of making "a mockery" of the cease-fire demand and said Russia had used its veto-wielding seat to stop the Security Council from doing more.British Ambassador Karen Pierce implored Russia to use its influence with Syria to further U.N. humanitarian efforts  calling the lack of aid access "diabolical" — "a strong word  but there are no others to describe what is happening " she said.Syria refers to opposition fighters as terrorists and says they are the cause of civilian suffering."We have been witness to a state of hysteria over the past weeks in the council as the Syrian government sought to exercise its sovereign right and to combat terrorist groups ... and to restore security and stability " Ambassador Bashar Ja'afari said.Russia's envoy argued his country was the only council member taking concrete steps toward the resolution's goals. He pointed to the "humanitarian pauses " insisting the evacuations were voluntary  and said Russians had provided food  drinking water and medical aid to evacuees."The Russian Federation has proactively taken measures to normalize this situation " Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said. "Some members of the Security Council prefer to squander time on letters and rhetoric with unfounded claims against our country."The cease-fire resolution's sponsors  Kuwait and Sweden  said they were disappointed in the outcome but determined to keep trying to achieve its goals.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  3:08 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Pro-Syrian government forces including Russian mercenaries amassed near U.S. and U.S.-backed forces last week in Syria  but a potential confrontation was defused after the U.S. military contacted Russian officers  U.S. officials said on Tuesday.The latest incident in the Syrian province of Deir al-Zor  east of the Euphrates River  came a month after a similar buildup led to U.S. strikes that killed or injured hundreds of Russian contractors.Defense Secretary Jim Mattis disclosed the buildup of forces in the last week while speaking to Pentagon reporters.However  Mattis said that after U.S. forces spoke with their Russian counterparts  the pro-Syrian government troops pulled back.Advertisement"This was a recent development  but we think that the potential for a clash there  thanks to the Russian direction to this group  has been reduced " Mattis said.AdvertisementMattis said he believed the forces were under Russian control.The U.S. military also attempted to use a hot line with Russia to defuse a crisis in February when forces who later turned out to be working for a Kremlin-linked contractor were building up near U.S. and U.S.-backed forces in Syria.When the opposing forces attacked  the United States unleashed hours of strikes and killed about 300 men in a major incident that both Russia and the United States sought to publicly downplay.The incidents underscored the potential for further conflict in Syria's oil-rich east  where the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias holds swathes of land seized in its offensive against Islamic State militants.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The U.S.-led coalition was set up in 2014 to battle Islamic State fighters in both Syria and Iraq  who were largely defeated last year.Some 2 000 U.S. troops remain on the ground in Syria  allied with the Kurdish-led SDF alliance.Mattis said he has not seen Turkish forces move against Manbij  which is located in northeast Syria about 30 miles south of the Turkish border.Turkey has said it will drive the Kurdish YPG militia away from the Syrian border if it does not reach an agreement with the United States on a plan to remove the group from the Manbij region."There has been no move against Manbij and we continue our dialogue with the Turkish authorities about how do we sort this out " Mattis said.In January  Turkey's army and its Syrian rebel allies began a military offensive against the YPG militia in Syria's Afrin district and gained full control of the region over the weekend.(Reporting by Idrees Ali and Phil Stewart; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 27  2018
PARIS — The aftermath of terrorist attacks in France has taken on a grim familiarity: political recriminations; the prosecutor of terrorism cases on the nightly news; the family photographs of the victims  their lives cut short.In the wake of Friday’s attack in the small southern town of Trèbes  what altered this violent narrative were the extraordinary actions of an individual whose heroism gave people a way to come together  and its culmination in a supermarket  an ordinary place familiar to every Frenchman and woman — rural or urban  Christian or Muslim  young or old — so that everyone was able to imagine being there.The hero was Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame of the French Gendarmerie who volunteered to exchange places with a hostage — a cashier — and was killed. He will be honored Wednesday in a ceremony at Les Invalides in Paris and eulogized by President Emmanuel Macron.“One tries to understand it  but one cannot get there ” said Patricia Perderiset  65  a retiree who had been shopping in the Trèbes market  the Super U  for Easter eggs for her grandchildren.AdvertisementIt is the only market of any size in the area  and people often see friends and neighbors there. Ms. Perderiset was about to say hello to a friend who was a cashier when she heard the first shots and a man shouting  “Allahu akbar!” She keeps going over the events  and thinking of those who lost their lives.Advertisement“I am thinking about the family of the butcher  about the customer who died for nothing  and about the colonel who sacrificed himself for us and that  had he not done that  he would be among us ” she said in an interview on Tuesday.The attack on Friday morning killed four people and left four others seriously wounded. The attacker  Radouane Lakdim  25  who was killed by the police  was a French-Moroccan of dual citizenship  who came to France when he was 4 months old.While French officials believed he had been radicalized in part because of his association with local Salafists  followers of an ultraconservative branch of Islam  and had put him on an active watch list  Mr. Lakdim was not thought to be on the verge of violence  said François Molins  the prosecutor  in a briefing late Monday.Mr. Lakdim did not seem to harbor any desires of going to Syria or Iraq  Mr. Molins added. Like a number of others who have drifted into terrorist behavior  Mr. Lakdim had a history as a petty criminal and small-time drug trafficker  and he had served time in prison. The French domestic intelligence agency had recently summoned Mr. Lakdim for an interview  but he had not yet gone to it.Accounts from witnesses show how quickly a familiar place can be transformed into a hostile one.At 10:39 on Friday morning  more than two dozen people were doing their weekly shopping in the Super U in Trèbes  a town of about 5 500  in the Aude Department in southern France when Mr. Lakdim arrived in the parking lot in a stolen car. He had stolen it about an hour earlier after wounding the driver and fatally shooting a passenger  Jean Mazières.Mr. Lakdim ran toward the supermarket brandishing a handgun and a large knife and began shooting almost as soon as he got inside  killing a butcher  Christian Medves  50. He ran down a row of cash registers  shouting: “Allahu akbar” and  using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State  “I am a soldier of Daesh.” The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack  using wording that suggested that the attacker was inspired by the group  rather than directed by it.“Get down  get down  don’t move” Mr. Lakdim said  fatally shooting a customer at almost the same time.The customer  Hervé Sosna  65  was a retired mason  said Denis Vial  a retiree who was in same checkout line and dropped to the floor next to him  according to a video interview published in the local paper  La Depêche du Midi.AdvertisementMs. Perderiset ignored the gunman’s instructions to get down. She pushed away her shopping cart and ran toward the back of the store  arriving at the fish counter. “I saw myself arrive alone in front of the woman who works behind the fish counter and she gestured me to come hide in the reserve room for the fish ” Ms. Perderiset said.Mr. Vial  meanwhile  was lying still on the floor as were about a dozen other employees and shoppers  he said. They were there for nearly an hour when Colonel Beltrame  44  entered unarmed  holding his hands in the air and talking to Mr. Lakdim  who was holding one of the cashiers as a shield with a gun pointed to her head  said the prosecutor  Mr. Molins.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.For most people it would be unimaginable to approach  unarmed  a gunman  said Bernard Bajolet  the former head of the French foreign intelligence service  but Colonel Beltrame was not just brave  he was also deeply prepared for the moment.In 2005  when Mr. Bajolet was serving as ambassador to Iraq  Colonel Beltrame led the gendarmes contingent guarding him.The French gendarmes sent to protect overseas operations are given especially tough training  Mr. Bajolet said  but Colonel Beltrame stood out. Then a captain  “he said how enthusiastic he was about the mission and that he was ready to sacrifice for it — not in a suicidal sense  but he knew that in certain circumstances you have to do certain things and he told me that ” Mr. Bajolet said.“He was a man with a perfect sense of control ” Mr. Bajolet added. “I trusted him completely.”Daniel Cerdan  also a former member of the gendarmerie’s elite unit  said Colonel Beltrame would have planned his approach carefully.“When he took that women’s place  he did so because he wanted to save a human life ” Mr. Cerdan said in an interview  noting that Colonel Beltrame might have perceived Mr. Lakdim’s willingness to speak with him as an opening.Advertisement“I don’t think that in his mind it was a sacrifice ” Mr. Cerdan said. “It was thought out.”Mr. Vial and others described hearing Colonel Beltrame say calmly to Mr. Lakdim  as he held the female cashier hostage  “Free her  she has done nothing.”Mr. Lakdim did so a few minutes later  and demanded that Salah Abdeslam  the only surviving member of the Islamic State group that killed 130 people in and around Paris in a series of coordinated attacks in November 2015  be freed. Colonel Beltrame told him he would convey the message  according to the prosecutor  Mr. Molins.What happened next was not so clear. Gunshots were heard over the line that Colonel Beltrame had left open on his cellphone  and gendarmes  fearing that their comrade was under attack  began the assault that ultimately killed Mr. Lakdim.An autopsy found that while Colonel Beltrame had a gunshot wound in one arm and a foot  the lethal blow came from a knife wound in the neck.Aurelien Breeden and Elian Peltier contributed reporting.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »Advertisement
                At War            By                     
 C. J. CHIVERS
 
MARCH 27  2018
A conversation with Rania Abouzeid  author of “No Turning Back: Life  Loss  and Hope in Wartime Syria” (W.W. Norton & Company  2018)Much of war is crime  a series of depredations and abuses — some calculated  others opportunistic  many a matter of routine — that participants cloak with sanctimony  euphemism and lies. The war in Syria serves as an example for our times  even as it continues to unfold.Since unrest spread in Syria in 2011  Rania Abouzeid  a freelance journalist who is fluent in Arabic  has been one of the most courageous and committed foreign observers of the war  examining its horrors and complexities by journeying within it. Along the way  she developed an enviable array of sources on many sides. Her first book  “No Turning Back: Life  Loss  and Hope in Wartime Syria ” taps this network to trace the conflict’s escalation from uncertain protests to intractable regional war  all told through characters that imbue the account with a personal tone.“War arrives suddenly  uninvited  and brings with it a new normal ” Abouzeid writes. “It has its own cadence  its own logic. It is the mundane experienced through heightened  sometimes supercharged emotions. The daily rhythm of life goes on  as it must  but with a constant undercurrent of tension  a baseline permanently shifted with the knowledge that a single abrupt event at any time — a knock on the door  an artillery shell  a sniper’s bullet — can upend everything. The commonness of death cheapens life.”“No Turning Back” offers a grim tour of an unraveling nation. It is packed with violence and treachery  filled with dreary scenes. Memorable characters appear only to disappear  claimed by assassination  airstrikes or prisons (dungeons might be the better word) in which they are subjected to forms of torture that took ordinary thuggery to inventive new lows. One of Abouzeid’s central characters  Suleiman Tlass Farzat  a detained protester  is “cycled in perpetuity through a labyrinth of suffering” so replete with viciousness that he marvels at “the artistic cruelty of his guards.”AdvertisementAnother  Hanin  an asthmatic Alawite child  is abducted by jihadists  who use children as leverage for a prisoner exchange. Sara  the sister of Mohammad  a Qaeda emir  lived near the hostages before the war. She musters little sympathy. “I used to have Alawite friends ” she tells Abouzeid. “I never thought that I would want to live far from the Alawites. Never. Now I do. I am scared of them and they are scared of us. There is blood between us.”Advertisement“At least the Alawites aren’t being raped ” she adds. “I will not help them.”This sort of moral corruption and sectarian self-righteousness helped violence spread through Syria like an uncontained  leaping fire. Many efforts at hastening the war’s end served as more fuel. Even would-be allies turned upon each other  as competition among groups seeking the downfall of President Bashar al-Assad created wars within the war  including the fratricidal militant infighting that Ayman al-Zawahiri  Al Qaeda’s leader  labeled the “waterfall of blood.”The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with the At War team.And then there was the awkward and ineffective support provided by the United States. This element emerges in Abouzeid’s portrayal of the frustration of the Hazm Movement  an American-funded rebel alliance that gathered intelligence on the activities and locations of Jabhat al-Nusra and the Islamic State  both of which were designated terrorist organizations by the United States.For months the United States did not act on the intelligence. Then  when it began attacking jihadist positions in Syria in 2014  it gave Hazm no warning  leaving its fighters and agents exposed to retaliation.Hazm was soon overpowered by Jabhat al-Nusra  yielding its American-supplied weapons to the Qaeda affiliate — a process resembling what has played out repeatedly since 2001 in Afghanistan and Iraq  where many American partners have been bedeviled by desertion and battlefield defeat. A Hazm operative shares a scalding critique  telling Abouzeid that “Russia is more honorable and trustworthy than the United States  because at least it is really standing alongside its ally.”Abouzeid was briefly in New York this month. She sat down to discuss her reporting  and that word in her book’s subtitle — “hope.”You covered Syria from the beginning  before protest seemed likely and when uprising seemed impossible. How did you select characters from the many people you met?I ended up with these characters because I felt that although they are individuals  each of their stories illuminated larger truths. I wanted to use characters and their experiences as vehicles  for example  to explain what happened to a Free Syrian Army battalion or the Islamization of the uprising. So I chose characters who would help a reader understand certain elements of the Syrian conflict.Advertisement“No Turning Back” illuminates experiences and points of view of female characters  including girls who came of age during war. Such voices are not prominent in news reports. Was it a mission to include them?Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.I wanted to include as many voices as I could to present as full a picture as I could. I spent more time with the men  because it’s the men who wage the wars. But the women are certainly there  and they’re there in many different capacities. I focused on Ruha  who was 9 years old in 2011  to tell the story of her family of very strong women  because I wanted to make sure that even in stories of war  the voices of others  who are not necessarily waging it  are also heard.The book mostly covers Sunnis  but there are sections that cover Alawites and sections that cover the government point of view. It was very hard in Syria to toggle between sides  but you managed  in spite of all of your time with Free Syrian Army and Islamist battalions  to be a guest of Air Force Intelligence in one of their main detention centers in Damascus —Where I was wanted as well. I was wanted by Air Force Intelligence.There were active warrants out for you. And you also covered the perspective of an Alawite family that was kidnapped by Islamists. How did you get access across this divide?I was branded a spy for several foreign states  and I learned that I was wanted by three of Syria’s four main intelligence agencies and barred from entering the country. This forced me to focus on the rebel side. I was on the Latakian front with the rebels in August 2013  shortly after their raid into those villages. And then I returned to Beirut  where I arranged to meet Talal and other Alawites whose families had been kidnapped in the raid. I stayed in contact with these family members  and I did manage two trips into government-held territory in 2013 and 2016 and went to their homes.The government let you in  in spite of long barring you. How did you meet with the Alawite families?I was allowed into Damascus for a conference in 2016  and I sneaked away and made my way to the Alawite neighborhood. I continued reporting that side of the story from the homes of some of these Alawite families that were still hoping that their captive loved ones would be freed. It was hard. It was very difficult to get into that side  and it took years.On the opposite side  you knew Mohammad and his wife  who were privy to and perhaps even participated in the detention of Talal’s family. What did you make of the absence of sympathy in Mohammad for these victims?It’s a chilling moment. Mohammad is a father. He has children of his own. He has a wife  he has nieces and nephews  but he couldn’t relate. He had so dehumanized the other side that he couldn’t relate. And that’s what war does. It’s in the stories that people tell themselves to be able to brand somebody an enemy.But in this case the enemies were children —And they were neighbors  because Mohammad was from the same area. He was from Latakia  too. That’s the great tragedy of civil wars. They turn neighbors against one another.AdvertisementYou lay out starkly the American betrayal of Hazm. To those who have followed American proxy arrangements in the Middle East across the decades  this was not surprising. Did you see it coming?I don’t know if I saw it coming  but the bigger point for me is repeated American involvement in the Middle East and the lessons that aren’t learned and the impact they have on the local communities. If you’re going to be stomping around in a place with a heavy footprint  then you should understand the place and the people you may be stepping on. Because  as history has taught us  blowback is an ugly thing.Many of your stories are testaments to courage  like that of Hanin  the asthmatic Alawite child  who chose to remain a hostage so others could go free. In seven years of this war  what have you learned about Syrians?The incredible resilience of ordinary people. Hanin was a prisoner. She was asleep one night when rebels entered her home and took her and her siblings and her mother hostage. The biggest lesson for me was the way people can adapt  the way they can survive  the way they can persist and the way they can continue  in some cases  even to have hope and to still be able to forgive and to still believe in a Syrian-ness that transcends politics.Does that idea still exist?I think it exists on the individual level. People are the building blocks of communities  and when it comes down to the community level and how neighbors become neighbors again  if they do  then it has to start with people like that who just want to get on with it and go back to living their lives. There is always hope. I mean  if they haven’t given up hope  then how dare we? Conflicts end. It doesn’t matter how long they take. They eventually end.An earlier version of this article described Sara’s relationship with Mohammad incorrectly. She is his sister  not his wife.C.J. Chivers is a writer at large for the magazine. He has been a reporter for The Times since 1999 and covers war.Interview has been condensed and edited.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  10:15 A.M. E.D.T.
ROME —  Police in southern Italy have detained an Egyptian imam who ran a cultural center where he allegedly preached extremist and violent interpretations of Islam to children.Financial police in Foggia say Mohy Eldin Mostafa Omer Abdel Rahman is accused of criminal association with the aim of terrorism and instigation to violence. During a raid Tuesday  police seized his Al Dawa cultural center.A police statement said the seizure was part of a larger investigation that resulted in the arrest in July of a Chechen man  Eli Bombataliev  accused of fighting with the Islamic State group in Syria and participating in a deadly attack on foreign and Russian journalists in Chechnya.Italy has been spared an Islamic extremist attack  thanks in part to widespread wiretapping and expulsions of suspected extremists.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  2:56 A.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  Turkey's military killed 11 Kurdish militants in its southern Hatay province bordering Syria overnight  the governor's office said on Tuesday  and the army said two of its soldiers were killed in a blast in Syria's Afrin region.Backed by air support  Turkish security forces opened fire and killed the militants after spotting them in Hatay's Arsuz district  near the Mediterranean Sea  the governor's office said in a statement.It said the military seized the bodies of six of militants  along with M-16 rifles  a rocket launcher and ammunition. The group was believed to be behind several attacks in the province last year  it said.Turkey has fought an insurgency with Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militants since 1984 and more than 40 000 people have been killed in the fighting  which is largely focused in Turkey's southeast  hundreds of kilometers (miles) east of Hatay.AdvertisementIn January  Turkey's army and its Syrian rebel allies began a military offensive against the Kurdish YPG militia in Syria's Afrin  bordering Hatay  and gained full control of the region at the weekend  according to a military source.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Separately  the Turkish Armed Forces said two Turkish soldiers died as a result of an improvised explosive device blast during search operations in Afrin region on Monday.Turkey regards the YPG as terrorists and an extension of the outlawed PKK. The European Union and United States designate the PKK a terrorist group but the YPG is a U.S. partner in the fight against Islamic State jihadists in Syria.Advertisement(Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by David Dolan)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  1:42 P.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for dialogue on trade policy between the European Union and the United States in a telephone call with U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday.Trump last Thursday temporarily excluded the EU  the United States' biggest trading partner  and six non-European countries from higher U.S. import duties on steel and aluminium."The chancellor called for a dialogue process between the European Union and the United States on trade policy  taking into account the rules-based international trade system " German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said in a statement.Seibert said Merkel and Trump had also affirmed their solidarity with Britain following a nerve gas attack that targeted a former Russian double agent in England.AdvertisementBritain has blamed Russia for the attack  something Moscow denies. The United States  Germany and a number of other countries have followed Britain in expelling Russian diplomats over the attack.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."(Trump and Merkel) welcomed the coordinated action of European states and NATO allies as a strong signal of unity towards Russia's  behaviour " Seibert said.AdvertisementMerkel's relationship with Trump got off to a frosty start after his election.Before a phone conversation on March 1 to discuss the war in Syria and Russian nuclear arms  the two leaders had not spoken to each other in more than five months.However  the two leaders reaffirmed their wish for their governments to cooperate closely  Seibert said. During their phone call  the two leaders also discussed the situation in Syria and with North Korea.(Reporting by Paul Carrel  editing by Emma Thomasson and Gareth Jones)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  12:06 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Saudi Arabia and Russia are working on a historic long-term pact that could extend controls over world crude supplies by major exporters for many years to come.Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told Reuters that Riyadh and Moscow were considering a longer deal to extend a short-term alliance on oil curbs that began in January 2017 after a crash in crude prices.“We are working to shift from a year-to-year agreement to a 10-20 year agreement ” the crown prince told Reuters in an interview in New York late on Monday.“We have agreement on the big picture  but not yet on the detail.” Russia  never a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  has worked alongside the 14-member cartel during previous oil gluts  but a 10-20 year deal between the two would be unprecedented.AdvertisementTop OPEC producer Saudi Arabia recruited Russia and other non-OPEC countries to help drain a glut when oil prices collapsed from over $100 a barrel in 2014 to below $30 in 2016.AdvertisementCrude has since recovered to $70 but fast-rising output from U.S. shale producers has capped prices.“This is all about whether the arrangement is a short-term expedient to deal with this particular crisis in the oil market  or whether it reflects a realignment in world oil ” said oil historian Daniel Yergin  vice-chairman at consultancy IHS Markit.“OPEC countries want to find a way to institutionalize this relationship rather than to have it be a one-shot deal.”ALLIANCE DESPITE SYRIA DIFFERENCESNews of the potential oil alliance comes at a time when Riyadh and Moscow have worked to cement an economic relationship despite being at odds over the conflict in Syria  where they back opposing sides.Riyadh supports rebels fighting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s army  while Russian and Iranian forces have backed Assad – meaning that Russia effectively sides with Iran  Riyadh’s regional arch-foe.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Last October  Saudi King Salman became the first sitting Saudi monarch ever to visit Russia. He led a delegation to Moscow that agreed joint investment deals worth several billion dollars  providing much-needed investment for a Russian economy battered by low oil prices and Western sanctions.Despite their differences in the Middle East  Russia and Saudi Arabia have been drawn together by a common interest in propping up flagging world oil prices  and by the fact that Moscow  since its military intervention in Syria  has clout in the Middle East that other countries in the region cannot ignore.ARAMCO IPO LATE 2018  EARLY 2019The crown prince predicted that world oil demand would not peak until 2040  despite advances in renewable energy technologies and the electric vehicle.In an attempt to end Saudi Arabia's reliance on oil  he is leading a push to diversify the Saudi economy away from oil and gas by 2030.AdvertisementRiyadh plans to raise funds through the flotation of a 5 percent stake in state Saudi oil company Aramco. Time is running out for an initial public offering this year but the crown prince said the IPO could still take place at the end of 2018 or in early 2019  depending on financial market conditions.Saudi Oil Minister Khalid al-Falih said last week that documentation was ready but that a venue for the IPO had not yet been decided. The New York stock exchange is still in the running for the IPO  alongside London and Hong Kong  but Falih said there was a risk of a "frivolous" legal action if Aramco were listed in the United States.(Additional reporting by Stephen Adler; Editing by Frances Kerry)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:30 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  A Syrian rebel group holed up in the besieged eastern Ghouta town of Douma said on Tuesday that Russia had yet to give its answer to proposals that involve insurgents and civilians staying in the area.In the face of defeat  rebel groups in other parts of eastern Ghouta have agreed to be moved to Idlib province in northwestern Syria. Douma  held by the Jaish al-Islam group  is the last remaining rebel-held part of eastern Ghouta."The Russians have not presented a decision on what the negotiations committee presented to them " Jaish al-Islam's military spokesman Hamza Birqdar said in a text message to Reuters from Douma  adding that a meeting was expected on Wednesday.He accused the Syrian government and its Russian ally of seeking to impose demographic changes on the area by forcing out its people.Advertisement"We have presented our decision to stay. This is not only a decision by Jaish al-Islam  but by all the revolutionary institutions and figures in Douma " Birqdar said.Thousands of people - rebel fighters and their families - have left other parts of eastern Ghouta since Thursday under the terms of withdrawal agreements brokered by Russia.Advertisement(Reporting by Tom Perry; Writing by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Gareth Jones)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »