AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  11:12 A.M. E.D.T.
DAMASCUS  Syria —  Aid groups need $150 million to provide urgent relief to a quarter-million people recently displaced by separate offensives by the Syrian government outside Damascus and by Turkish-led forces in the north  a top U.N. Syria official said Wednesday.U.N. coordinator Ali al-Za'atari said some 80 000 people have fled the government's offensive in the eastern Ghouta region east of Damascus  where shelling and airstrikes have killed some 1 600 people in five weeks. He said 50 000 were still living in shelters that have been stretched beyond capacity.Around 26 000 people had returned to their towns after they were recaptured by the government  said Khaled Hboubati  the head of the Syrian Arab Red Crescent  at a joint press conference with al-Za'atari in Damascus.The International Red Cross said Monday that children were emerging from eastern Ghouta with diarrhea  lice and skin diseases. It said many walked for kilometers (miles) on bare feet to reach the shelters.AdvertisementThe shelters were overcrowded  had no proper sanitation  and lacked toilets and showers  said the ICRC. It said it was working with the Red Crescent to improve them.AdvertisementThe Russian military operation in Syria said Monday more than 120 000 residents had arrived on the government's side of the front lines around eastern Ghouta. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said 100 000 had crossed over. None of the figures could be independently verified.Another 180 000 displaced Syrians are in need in the northern town of Tel Rifaat  after Turkish forces seized the Kurdish-controlled town of Afrin  said al-Za'atari.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He told reporters in Damascus that "finance is coming  but is still beneath the required level."A renewed push by the Syrian government and Russia to take the last rebel-held pocket in eastern Ghouta could drive tens of thousands more out of their homes and into shelters.Russia gave the rebel Army of Islam faction 48 hours from Tuesday to agree to leave the town of Douma or face one last assault that could kill countless civilians trapped inside. The government was amassing its forces around the town in preparation.The Army of Islam is the last faction holding out against the government in eastern Ghouta.If the fighters agree to leave  they will follow some 25 000 others — fighters and civilians — who have elected to board buses to rebel-held northwest Syria instead of reconcile with the government. Many say they cannot serve in President Bashar Assad's conscription army. Others say they cannot trust the government's notorious security services.The bus evacuations continued Wednesday. Some 6 500 people arrived in Idlib from the formerly besieged Ghouta towns of Arbeen  Ein Terma  Zamalka  and Jobar.Another convoy of buses was scheduled to leave eastern Ghouta later in the day  or early Thursday.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  3:35 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura will hold talks in Moscow on Thursday about the latest situation in Syria  the RIA news agency reported on Wednesday  citing an unnamed diplomatic source.(Reporting by Katya Golubkova; Editing by Andrew Osborn)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  6:02 A.M. E.D.T.
ANKARA —  A German national who was trying to cross into Syria from Turkey has been arrested by Turkish authorities over alleged links to Kurdish militants  the state-run Anadolu news agency said.In a report citing security officials on Tuesday  Anadolu said Patrick Kraicker  28  was detained on March 14 in the Silopi district of the southeastern province of Sirnak.During his questioning  Kraicker said he wanted to cross into Syria to join the Syrian Kurdish PYD  according to Anadolu.Ankara considers the PYD  and its YPG armed group  to be extensions of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) which has waged a three-decade insurgency in Turkey's largely Kurdish southeast.AdvertisementAnadolu said Kraicker was later arrested for "aiding and abetting a terrorist organization".Turkey last month released German-Turkish journalist Deniz Yucel  removing a key irritant in ties between the two allies  but German officials remain deeply concerned about Turkey's deteriorating record on human rights and freedoms and its military operations in northern Syria.Turkish forces and their rebel allies launched an offensive against the YPG in northern Syria's Afrin region in January and took over the town of Afrin 10 days ago.Advertisement(Reporting by Tuvan Gumrukcu; Editing by Ece Toksabay)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ANNA CODREA-RADOMARCH 28  2018
LONDON — A reconstruction of an ancient statue of a winged bull destroyed by ISIS is the latest public art installation to sit on a sculpture platform here known as the Fourth Plinth  on Trafalgar Square.The sculpture  by the American artist Michael Rakowitz  titled “The Invisible Enemy Should Not Exist ” was unveiled on Tuesday. It depicts a re-creation of Lamassu  an Assyrian statue that stood in Iraq in the ancient city of Nineveh  on the outskirts of modern-day Mosul  until 2015 when the militant group destroyed it along with other irreplaceable works of ancient art.Lamassu is a mythological creature known for its protective qualities. It has the head of a man and the body of a winged bull. Mr. Rakowitz’s re-creation is made of 10 500 recycled cans of date syrup; dates were a key export in Iraq before war shrank the industry.In an interview with The New York Times when he was shortlisted for the commission  Mr. Rakowitz described his work as “a placeholder for the thousands of human lives that have gone missing and can’t be reconstructed.”AdvertisementMr. Rakowitz  whose Iraqi-Jewish grandparents fled Iraq in 1946  is known for exploring Middle Eastern political themes in conceptual work designed to be displayed outside of galleries. In 2006  he opened an art installation in a store in Brooklyn exploring the politics of selling imported Iraqi dates in the United States.Mr. Rakowitz’s winning piece was announced last year along with the British artist Heather Phillipson  whose sculpture “The End” will occupy the plinth in 2020. The artists were among five contenders vying for two winning spots atop the prominent outdoor free exhibition space in central London.AdvertisementThe Fourth Plinth is a public art project now run and partially funded by the office of the mayor of London. The first sculpture to be shown there was Mark Wallinger’s “Ecce Homo” in 1999; other commissioned artists have included Antony Gormley  Marc Quinn and Rachel Whiteread.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page C3 of the New York edition with the headline: Assyrian Statue Reborn In London Unveiling A reconstruction of an ancient.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 28  2018
PARIS — Officers of the French Republican Guard  riding motorcycles and wearing blue uniforms and white helmets  formed the honor guard escorting the simple dark car carrying the body of Col. Arnaud Beltrame to the Invalides in Paris for a hero’s memorial on Wednesday.President Emmanuel Macron gave a eulogy for Colonel Beltrame  and the gendarme was honored with a full military ceremony for his act of courage in voluntarily exchanging himself for a female hostage during a terrorist attack last week in the town of Trèbes  in southwest France  an act that saved the woman and possibly others  but that cost the gendarme his life.“To accept to die so the innocent can live  that is the essence of what it means to be a soldier ” Mr. Macron said. “Others  even many who are brave  would have hesitated.”Mr. Macron awarded Colonel Beltrame the title of Commander of the Legion of Honor  one of the highest accolades that France bestows.AdvertisementMr. Macron and Édouard Philippe  the prime minister  stood bareheaded out of respect for Colonel Beltrame  despite a chilly  steady rain  as did crowds of Parisians who lined the route the hearse took through the capital. Although most of the onlookers had not known the 44-year-old gendarme in life  they knew everything about his death.Laying aside his weapon on Friday  Colonel Beltrame entered a Super U market in Trèbes not long after Radouane Lakdim  25  had entered  wielding a handgun and a knife. Mr. Lakdim shot a customer and the supermarket’s butcher  and then took a female cashier as a hostage. Colonel Beltrame told him to let the woman go and to take him instead.AdvertisementFrench news reports suggested on Wednesday that Colonel Beltrame had at some point tried to disarm Mr. Lakdim  precipitating the shooting and lethal knifing of the gendarme.The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack  saying that Mr. Lakdim had been inspired by the militant group. The language used in the claim was similar to that employed in instances when the Islamic State has had no direct contact with an assailant.Mr. Lakdim’s 18-year-old girlfriend  however  who has been identified only as Marine P.  has been placed under formal investigation for terrorism-related charges including kidnapping  murder  and criminal conspiracy.Colonel Beltrame’s act prompted an outpouring of support and a sense of community from people of different faiths and backgrounds. A Mass held for him in Trèbes on Sunday drew not only Christians but also Jews and Muslims  who saw the attack at the supermarket as an assault on their community and on a place where they all shopped.“The light that Colonel Beltrame lit will not die with him ” Mr. Macron said on Wednesday. “He symbolized the French spirit of resistance.”Follow Alissa J. Rubin on Twitter: @Alissanyt.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  1:20 P.M. E.D.T.
BUDAPEST —  A Syrian man who is under U.S. sanctions for assisting the Syrian government received residency status in Hungary under a visa bond program launched by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government  two Hungarian websites reported.The investigative portals Direkt36 and 444.hu said on Wednesday in a joint report  citing unnamed sources  that Hungary gave a residency permit to Atiya Khoury  who the United States accused in 2016 of paying for fuel procurements for President Bashar al-Assad's government.The "golden visa scheme" launched in 2013  which guarantees temporary residency for at least five years to foreigners buying a Hungarian bond for up to 300 000 euros  helped Hungary raise funds at a time when its credit rating languished in "junk" status. Hungary halted the program last year.Orban's chief of staff Janos Lazar told a regular news conference that national security bodies had screened all those who had bought residency bonds.Advertisement"I'm sure that they screened everyone very thoroughly ... I have no doubt about that " he said when asked repeatedly about the report. He did not address specific details in the report.AdvertisementThe websites' allegation that certain Syrians were among those allowed to buy residency comes at a sensitive time for Orban's right-wing government which has been fiercely campaigning against Muslim immigrants ahead of an election on April 8.The websites said it could also be a worrying lapse of national security  if it were confirmed.Orban is seeking a third consecutive term and his party has a lead over the opposition in the opinion polls.The opposition Socialist party urged the government to clarify whether it let "criminals" settle in Hungary  and the opposition Democratic Coalition and LMP parties demanded more clarity on the issue.The Immigration Office did not reply to Reuters questions regarding the identity of the man who the websites said received his status under the bond program.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The government did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. Hungary's intelligence agency did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment.Reuters could not independently verify the websites' report  which did not say when the Syrian man was given the visa.Direkt36 said it received a list of names from an unnamed source which included individuals from several countries  not just Syria  who took part in the visa program. Another source familiar with the administrative process confirmed the man and his relatives received residency permits through the program  Direkt36 said.It highlighted a second Syrian man who Italian authorities suspect took part in an international money-laundering scheme. Direkt36 said he was detained by police on Nov. 28  2017  in Hungary. Police did not reply to requests for comment.AdvertisementThe U.S. Treasury Department said on its website at the time when it imposed sanctions that the man the Hungarian websites identified  alternatively spelled as Atiya Khouri by the U.S. Treasury  operated a firm Moneta Transfer & Exchange and moved cash between Syria  Lebanon  and Russia on behalf of another man  and with authority from the government of Syria "He paid for fuel procurement for the government of Syria using Moneta Transfer & Exchange and received a commission for these transactions " it added at the time.It was not possible to contact the man.(Reporting by Krisztina Than; Editing by Alison Williams)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 28  2018  2:17 P.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  Turkey will take action if militants do not withdraw immediately from Syria's Manbij region and areas in the country east of the Euphrates  Turkey's National Security Council said on Wednesday.Turkey  which stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week after a two-month offensive against the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia  has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.Expanding Turkey's military campaign into the much larger Kurdish-held territory further east  which President Tayyip Erdogan has vowed to do  would risk confrontation between the NATO allies who have been at loggerheads over the U.S. policy in Syria and other issues."In the meeting  it is stated that the terrorists in Manbij should be removed from the area  otherwise Turkey will not hesitate to take initiative by itself as it did in other regions " the statement from the security council  chaired by Erdogan  said.AdvertisementIt said the same approach also applied to the militants on Syrian soil at the east of Euphrates  without elaborating where that would specifically apply to  or who it might target.AdvertisementTurkey considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state  and has been infuriated by the support Washington has provided the Syrian Kurdish fighters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The Council said it also expected Iraq's government to prevent the PKK operating in Iraq  especially in towns of Sinjar and Qandil. If that was not possible Turkey would prevent them itself  the council added."In the meeting it is stated that aside from Syria  Turkey expects Iraq to prevent operations by the separatist terrorist organization in its territory and if it is not possible Turkey will prevent them by itself " the council statement said using the term it applies to PKK.On Tuesday  Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said Iraqi armed forces would prevent Kurdish militants based in northern Iraq from staging cross-border attacks against Turkey during a phone call with his Turkish counterpart.(Reporting by Ezgi Erkoyun; Editing by Alison Williams)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  2:15 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Three years ago  the Army of Islam  one of Syria's most powerful armed opposition groups  held a massive military parade that included thousands of opposition fighters marching in formation and a striking display of tanks and armored vehicles at the doors of the Syrian capital.The parade  held in the town of Douma in the spring of 2015  demonstrated the Saudi-backed group's growing clout in the eastern Ghouta suburbs  which for years were seen as a potential launch pad for a ground attack on Damascus  seat of President Bashar Assad's power.The Army of Islam now stands alone in eastern Ghouta  its fighters facing a stark choice: Surrender or die.Haitham Bakkar  a Douma-based opposition activist  said the situation in Douma is very tense because it is unclear what will happen next. He said it was a question of existence for the Army of Islam fighters  most of whom are from Douma.Advertisement"If the Army of Islam goes to northern Syria it will be its end " he said.Douma  on the northeastern edge of Damascus  is the last rebel holdout in the eastern Ghouta region after thousands of fighters from the Ahrar al-Sham and Faylaq al-Rahman groups ceded their towns to government control under a deal brokered by Russia  a key ally of Assad.AdvertisementFor days  their fighters have been exiting from the southernmost pockets of eastern Ghouta  leaving in a fleet of buses  including the lime-green municipal buses that have come to symbolize defeat for the Syrian opposition as the government takes back control of cities around the country.The Ghouta fighters join tens of thousands of rebels from other areas of Syria  including Aleppo and Homs  who were driven out in the past few years following similar deals with the government that granted them safe passage to the north in return for abandoning the rebellion.With the help of Russian airstrikes  the army has waged a crushing air and ground offensive to recapture eastern Ghouta  killing more than 1 600 people since Feb. 18  according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. Five weeks later  the eastern Ghouta region  once a cluster of around 15 rebel-held towns spread east of Damascus  has been overtaken by government forces  except for Douma  where the Army of Islam is headquartered.Rebels who have left eastern Ghouta so far have all gone to Idlib  an insurgent-held region dominated by al-Qaida-affiliated fighters near the Turkish border  where they either have a presence or good relations with Turkey.By contrast  the Army of Islam  called Jaysh al-Islam in Arabic  is home-grown and has no other strongholds in the country."Jaysh al-Islam is a very local phenomenon  emerging from the specific social fabric and Salafi school of thought of the Damascus countryside " said Faysal Itani  a senior fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic Council."More precisely  Jaysh al-Islam is a creature of Douma  and I don't know how it would survive outside it " especially in Idlib  where there is rebel rivalry  he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It is a resounding defeat for the powerful group that once briefly overran parts of Damascus and showered the capital with mortar shells. It is also a reflection of the diminished role of Saudi Arabia  once a major supporter of Syrian rebels.AdvertisementThousands of Army of Islam fighters — some estimates say around 10 000 — are now encircled in Douma  a densely populated town with a huge number of civilians who are terrified of what they see as a looming army offensive if the rebels don't exit. One resident said there are currently about 150 000 civilians in Douma  many of them internally displaced from other towns in eastern Ghouta  some of them staying out in the open or in destroyed buildings.This civilian pressure is weighing on the group as it negotiates with the government and its Russian backers. Several opposition activists have said that the Russians have given the Army of Islam 48 hours as of early Tuesday to leave Douma for northern Syria or face an all-out offensive.But the group's military spokesman  Hamza Bayraqdar  denied the reports and said Army of Islam fighters would never leave  describing the evacuations to the north as forced displacement."We are negotiating to stay  not to depart " he told Al-Arabiya TV on Tuesday. "The people who will leave eastern Ghouta will never dream of returning to their homes."The group has no good choices. Going to Idlib would put its fighters in an area dominated by al-Qaida  against whom it has fought pitched battles in the past. The Britain-based Observatory reported this week that the Russians rejected a request by some Army of Islam members to head to the southern province of Daraa. Such a move would bring the militants close to the Jordanian border  from where they would likely get assistance from Saudi Arabia.The rebels  meanwhile  are bitterly blaming each other for their defeat in Ghouta.After Faylaq al-Rahman began withdrawing from eastern Ghouta  Army of Islam members blasted their former allies  accusing them of helping government forces by drying out artificial swamps set up by insurgents to slow down the army's offensive."We had defensive plans prepared  but regrettably Faylaq al-Rahman cut the water that was brought from Barada River " Bayraqdar said. "This sped up the regime's advance."Asked about the charges  Faylaq al-Rahman spokesman Wael Olwan said: "I don't want to respond because we are trying to avoid their irresponsible statements."Olwan told The Associated Press that it is still not clear whether Faylaq al-Rahman's members will end up in Idlib or in areas controlled by Turkish troops. "I still don't know what our role will be " he said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  10:51 A.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  A journey that before the war in Syria was just a 15-minute drive from Damascus now took well over an hour  clambering over giant ramparts of dirt and rubble. Visiting his house in the town of Harasta for the first time in six years  Danny Makki couldn't recognize it."I didn't even know it was my street till I recognized the supermarket opposite the house ... no placards  no signs  just destruction " he said.The visit this week by Makki  a British-born Syrian journalist  provided a first look into the devastation wreaked in Harasta  where opposition fighters surrendered after a ferocious  Russian-backed air and ground offensive by government forces aiming to retake the region of eastern Ghouta on the edge of the Syrian capital.The rebels agreed to lay down their arms in return for safe passage to opposition-held northwestern Syria. As thousands of fighters were bused out  Harasta's civilians have been transported to government centers in and around Damascus  leaving the town  once home to a population of around 35 000  an empty  shattered husk.AdvertisementHarasta  on Damascus' northeastern edge  was among the first to rise up against President Bashar Assad's rule in 2011 and soon fell into the hands of the armed opposition along with other towns of eastern Ghouta. For six years  the army has been trying to uproot the rebels in grueling warfare with no decisive victory  until the assault that began last month. Harasta was declared officially under Syrian army control on Friday.AdvertisementThe area is still restricted to civilians while army experts work to clear explosives. But Makki  who is temporarily based in Damascus  was able to enter briefly Monday afternoon to check on his home  where his mother and grandmother lived before the war.Makki passed a water station on the edge of town that not long ago had been a front-line battle zone. He walked down dirt roads where tanks and military trucks kicked up clouds of dirt. The sky was black with smoke; looters were burning scrap to extract copper and other metals  the last things to be stripped from a town where over the past six years anything of value had been ripped out.At the intersection leading to his house  a row of buses blocked the road  he said. So he had to climb over 3-meter-high (10-foot-high) mounds of dirt that had been put up as barriers between the two warring sides. Then over under huge pile of dirt that had been in place so long grass had grown out of it  he said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."The streets were empty. It was like a ghost town " he said. He passed a cemetery where holes had been blasted in the walls."Not even the dead could escape this war " he said.His district is called Hay el-Hada'eq  or Gardens Neighborhood. "I just saw streets full of rubble so deep you couldn't even see the ground at some point " he said.When he spotted the supermarket and realized he was on his street  he found his apartment building. It didn't seem so bad at first sight. But then he went in and saw even the elevator was gone. The stairs were blackened  covered with rubble and glass. The apartment itself was a shell  walls blasted open to the street on three sides  floors piled with wreckage. All belongings in it were long gone  even the doors.Slogans were scrawled on the walls by both government troops and rebels  showing that both sides had occupied the house at various times over the years.Farther down the street  the destruction continued. There was a tunnel around 100 meters (109 yards) deep and 3 meters (3.3 yards) wide in the middle of a street."How are people meant to come back to this?" Makki asked.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  6:09 A.M. E.D.T.
THESSALONIKI  Greece —  The Latest on migrant issues facing Europe (all times local):1:05 p.m.The European Union's law enforcement agency says authorities have broken up an Iraqi gang that smuggled migrants and refugees into the United Kingdom from Spain.Europol says the gang took Albanian migrants as well as refugees from Afghanistan  Iraq  Pakistan and Syria to the U.K. using regular ferry services from northern Spain  hiding them in trailers  caravans and trucks that were waiting in restricted parking bays to board the ferries.The statement on Wednesday says Spain's Guardia Civil arrested seven members of the gang  including Iraqis  Albanians and Spaniards  in raids on houses this month.___11:15 a.m.Greek authorities say they are searching for a group of migrants who made an emergency call saying they were in danger while crossing a river marking the border between Greece and Turkey.Police and fire department officials said Wednesday an unidentified person called an emergency number Tuesday afternoon saying they were among a group of 15 people trying to cross the Evros river  which was swollen by heavy rainfall. Rescue crews have been searching the area near the Greek village of Praki but had found nothing by Wednesday morning.Hundreds of people attempt to cross from Greece to Turkey each week. Most make the crossing from the Turkish coast to nearby Greek islands  but many also attempt to cross the river  on the land section of the Greek-Turkish border.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »