AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  12:32 P.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura on Thursday that refugees could begin returning to Syria's eastern Ghouta on Sunday or Monday  RIA news agency reported.(Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  4:45 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France has offered to mediate between Turkey and the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces  and assured the SDF of Paris' support in stabilizing northern Syria  President Emmanuel Macron's office said on Thursday.Speaking after Macron met a delegation from northern Syria that included the Kurdish YPG militia  Khaled Eissa  a Kurdish official based in Paris  said Macron had promised to send French troops to Manbij to support the fight against Islamic State and dissuade Turkey from advancing on the town.The president's office declined to comment on that.(Reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier; Editing by Robin Pomeroy)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  2:27 A.M. E.D.T.
MOSCOW —  Russia's defense ministry said on Thursday nearly 5 300 rebels and members of their families left Syria's eastern Ghouta enclave on Wednesday  news agencies reported.Rebels left the town of Arbeen for the northern province of Idlib  according to the Centre for Reconciliation in Syria  a body run by the ministry.(Reporting by Denis Pinchuk; Writing by Andrey Ostroukh; editing by John Stonestreet)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  2:30 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The Syrian government has given a final  three-day ultimatum to the largest rebel group in the enclave of eastern Ghouta to leave the last remaining rebel-held town in the area  state TV reported on Thursday.According to the TV report  the 72-hour deadline began on Wednesday night.Talks have been deadlocked for days between the Army of Islam group  which controls the Syrian town of Douma  just outside of Damascus  and Russian mediators.The Syrian government and its Russian backers have insisted that Army of Islam members leave the area for northern Syria.Army of Islam spokesman Ammar al-Hassan said the government is insisting that the group's fighters move north but that they have rejected such demands.AdvertisementPro-government media have warned of an all-out offensive on Douma if the rebels don't withdraw.In Moscow  the Russian defense minister said Syrian rebels attempted to put dozens of suicide attackers on buses evacuating residents from Damascus' eastern suburbs.AdvertisementSergei Shoigu said during Thursday's meeting with visiting U.N. envoy to Syria Staffan de Mistura that the Russian military received a tip about the planned attacks from locals in eastern Ghouta and disarmed the would-be attackers.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Shoigu said the military found seven belts packed with explosives for suicide missions on Monday  another 32 on Tuesday and nine on Wednesday."It's easy to imagine what would happen if those suicide attackers blew themselves up on the buses carrying women and children " Shoigu added.He said that 130 000 civilians and 11 000 rebels have so far left eastern Ghouta over the past two weeks.De Mistura  who also met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov  said after their talks that it is essential to ensure the safety of civilians being evacuated from eastern Ghouta.He noted that he had discussed provisions for the U.N. humanitarian assistance in eastern Ghouta and other regions of Syria. De Mistura also emphasized the need to give a new impulse to the talks on the political settlement in Syria.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  6:21 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  France's president on Thursday assured the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) of Paris' support to stabilise northeastern Syria against Islamic State  and Kurdish officials said he had committed to sending troops to the region.Emmanuel Macron has been criticized at home over his response to a Turkish military operation against YPG militants. The group makes up a large portion of the SDF  which have been at the forefront of the U.S.-led coalition's strategy to defeat the hard-line militants.Macron met earlier for the first time with a delegation that included the YPG  which Turkey is trying to sweep away from its border  its political arm the PYD  and Christian and Arab officials."The president ... paid tribute to the sacrifices and the determining role of the SDF in the fight against Daesh " Macron's office said in a statement.Advertisement"He assured the SDF of France's support for the stabilization of the security zone in the north-east of Syria  within the framework of an inclusive and balanced governance  to prevent any resurgence of Islamic State."AdvertisementFormer president Francois Hollande  who originally approved French support for the Kurds  bemoaned on March 23 Macron's Syria policy  in particular his attitude to the YPG  accusing him of abandoning them.Ankara considers the YPG to be an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)  which has waged a decades-long insurgency against the state within Turkey.France  like the United States  has extended arms and training to the YPG-led militia in the fight against Islamic State  and has dozens of special forces based in the region  which has infuriated Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkey stormed the northern Syrian town of Afrin last week  and has repeatedly threatened to push its operations further east to Manbij where U.S. troops are stationed.Speaking to Reuters after the meeting with Macron  Khaled Eissa  a PYD member who represents the northern Syria region in Paris  said Macron had promised to send more troops to the area  provide humanitarian assistance and push a diplomatic solution."There will be reinforcements to help secure from attacks by Islamic State and stop a foreign aggression " he said  referring to Turkey. "It's message that this irresponsible action from the Islamists in Ankara stops."The French presidency declined to comment on whether Paris was sending troops. However  it said in the statement that Macron was offering to mediate between the two sides given that the SDF had distanced itself from the PKK."Acknowledging the commitment of the SDF to have no operational link with this terrorist group ... he (Macron) hopes that a dialogue could be established between the FDS and Turkey with France and the international community's help " it said.Macron spoke with U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday about the situation in northern Syria.(Reporting by John Irish and Marine Pennetier; Editing by Robin Pomeroy  Toni Reinhold)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  7:39 A.M. E.D.T.
BERLIN —  An association representing Germany's trades says the number of migrants doing apprenticeships more than doubled last year.The ZDH association said Thursday that in 2017 its members had about 11 000 apprentices from eight countries that represent the majority of refugees in Germany  including Afghanistan  Syria and Iraq.A year earlier the number of apprentices from those countries was about 4 600.The most popular apprenticeships include automotive technician  plant mechanic and hairdresser.Germany's apprenticeship system is highly regarded as a bridge between school and a profession  but a drop in the birth rate and a rise in people going to university has caused a shortage of apprentices in recent years.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  1:42 P.M. E.D.T.
MANBIJ  Syria —  A rowdy mob of over two dozen men on motorcycles streamed into the small square in the center of Manbij. They cheered and waved jerseys of their local soccer team  which had just beat the town's top club. The upset victory was sweet  and their wild chants reverberated  "My people! My people!"It was a moment of normalcy distracting from the tensions engulfing the northwestern Syrian town  which is at the heart of a tussle among Syria's Kurds  the United States and Turkey.Turkey has threatened to march on Manbij and wrest it from Kurdish hands after its forces won a resounding victory over Kurdish fighters earlier this month and took control of Afrin  a town 60 miles (100 kilometers) to the west.If Turkey goes through with its threats  it will come in direct confrontation with American troops who patrol Manbij alongside their Kurdish alliesAdvertisementAnkara and Washington are in talks to diffuse tensions  with a new round expected on Friday. But it is unclear what would appease Turkey  which says it is prepared to push all the way west to the Iraqi border to push the Kurdish YPG militia — Washington's only ally in Syria — away from its borders. It views the YPG as a threat to its national security and an extension of its own insurgents.AdvertisementManbij residents said the repeated threats by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan have unnerved them — especially after the demoralizing defeat of the Kurds in Afrin. But many who spoke to the Associated Press during a recent visit also said they have faith the U.S. won't abandon them to face Turkish advances on their town.Manbij  a mixed Arab and Kurdish town of nearly 400 000  was liberated from Islamic State group militants in 2016 by the YPG fighters with backing from U.S-led coalition airstrikes. Now the town is bustling with trade and life.With Turkey's threats  the town has become a lynchpin for U.S. policy in Syria. Its loss would damage the Americans' prestige and military deployment in eastern Syria.Said al-Sayegh  a 33-year old teacher  proudly told of how he didn't leave Manbij after the IS takeover — even when the militants put a gun to his neck  threatening to kill him for refusing to grow a beard. And he said there's no reason to worry now  confident that Erdogan won't risk a fight with the U.S. and the Americans won't back down."They will stay. They have invested in it and they have an ally here " he said. "For the Americans  it is strategically important for the control of whole of eastern Syria."The U.S. Central Command chief  Army Gen. Joseph Votel  said Wednesday the United States recognizes Turkey's security concerns  but it also has a "key partner on the ground" in the Kurds  who made sacrifices in the fight against IS. "We have to continue to work between these two objectives to ensure that we can find an appropriate way forward " he told journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Wednesday afternoon  the town's center was buzzing with shoppers. Shop windows gleamed with new clothes  perfumes and trendy shoes. Women in fashionable headscarves — and some with veils over their faces — went up and down the commercial streets  as children were enjoying ice cream in garish fluorescent colors. A few buildings still showed the scars of the fight against IS; a women's clothes shop — named "Zara " in a knock-off of the international chain — has newly opened in a building whose upper floors are still a crushed wreck.Security patrols and roving  surprise checkpoints gave evidence of the high alert that local forces were on after a recent assassination attempt on a senior Kurdish official.AdvertisementDespite people's confidence  the YPG's defeat in Afrin weighed heavily on some. Turkish troops with allied Syrian fighters waged a two-month assault on the Kurdish-majority town in heavy fighting. There was no U.S. presence in Afrin  which was not a theater in fighting against the Islamic State group.Jamal Sattouf  a resident of Manbij  said his heart went out as he watched footage of Afrin residents streaming out of their town in the winter months  fleeing Turkish bombardment. It reminded him of what he and his family endured in the fighting to free Manbij from IS."I don't wish that (suffering) for anyone " Sattouf said. "We fear that he (Erdogan) will be here tomorrow ... People are afraid of him and no one else."But Mona al-Ahmed  wearing a faint pink lipstick and a black hijab  said she was adamant Erdogan can't disturb her life — again  after her world was turned upside down by the IS takeover in 2014. During their rule  the militants imposed their radical interpretation of Islamic law enforced with ruthless brutality. Women were largely forced to stay at home."We now feel alive again " she said. She was encouraged not just by the U.S. presence but also by the town's strong fighters and defenses."It is impossible for Erdogan to come here " she said. "We are safe and it is impossible for anyone to come in here."Ahmed al-Khadr  a member of Manbij's internal security  was guarding the rowdy fans of the Al-Ittihad soccer team celebrating their victory over their local rival club  Al-Sharif. He was dismissive of Erdogan  saying he'd made no moves despite all his threats."Where was he when Daesh was here " al-Khadr said  using the Arabic acronym for IS. "Why didn't he enter Manbij then? Why didn't he want it?"We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  2:32 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The massive Russian-backed Syrian military offensive in suburbs east of Damascus is almost over  with rebels holed up in just a single town after abandoning the rest of the eastern Ghouta enclave  Moscow said on Thursday.Russia and the rebel faction controlling Douma  the last Ghouta town still in insurgent hands  said they were still negotiating over the fate of the town. Moscow said it saw a chance of the remaining insurgents quitting Douma.Thousands of fighters have accepted Russian-brokered deals to leave other parts of the enclave in the past week with their families on government-supplied buses  giving them safe passage to other insurgent-held areas. Tens of thousands of other civilians have stayed behind to accept state rule  and tens of thousands more have fled across the frontline.The collapse of rebel control in eastern Ghouta  after one of the fiercest campaigns of the seven year war  has delivered the insurgents their worst defeat since they were driven out of Aleppo in 2016.AdvertisementAt a weekly briefing  Russia's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the "counter-terrorist operation" in eastern Ghouta had nearly finished  according to RIA state news agency.AdvertisementDeputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said there could be progress in talks with fighters from the Jaish al-Islam group  which holds Douma  RIA said.Eastern Ghouta  an early centre of the 2011 uprising against President Bashar al-Assad  was until last month the biggest and most populous remaining rebel stronghold near the capital.Its capture will cap a string of battlefield victories for the government of President Bashar al-Assad since Russia sent its air force to join his war effort against the rebellion in September 2015  making his position unassailable.A commander in the alliance supporting Assad  which besides Russia includes Iran and Shi'ite militias from Lebanon and Iraq  said on Wednesday negotiations with Jaish al-Islam had stopped.However  Jaish al-Islam official Mohammad Alloush  based outside Syria  told Reuters by text message on Thursday that talks were continuing  "despite reports of threats and provocations in order to put pressure on civilians".SHELTERSDespite some artillery fire on Douma on Wednesday  there has been no renewal of the army's withering bombardment and assault that stormed most of the rebel enclave in just a few weeks.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It split eastern Ghouta into three parts  and the factions in two of the zones agreed surrender terms a week ago  including the choice of accepting Assad's rule or leaving with light weapons for opposition territory in northwestern Syria.Daily convoys of buses have since made the 320km (200 miles) journey to Idlib carrying about 7 500 fighters and their families  30 000 people in all  according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  a Britain-based war monitor.AdvertisementAbout 134 000 other people fled across front lines from rebel territory in eastern Ghouta into areas held by the government  the Observatory said. Some 40 000 people remained in the towns it has recaptured so far.On Thursday  the United Nations resident and humanitarian coordinator's office in Syria said in an emailed update that 75 000 civilians had been received in shelters and 47 000 civilians remained in them. It described conditions in the shelters - mostly unfinished buildings  hangars or schools - as "dire".Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu told the U.N. Syria envoy that displaced people could begin returning to eastern Ghouta in a few days  RIA said.Assad and his allies say their offensive was needed to end the rule of Islamist militants over civilians and to stop rebel mortar fire on Damascus  which state television says has killed dozens in recent weeks. The Observatory says the government assault has killed more than 1 600 people.Western countries and rights groups have accused the Syrian military of targeting civilian infrastructure and repeatedly using indiscriminate weapons including helicopter-dropped barrel bombs  chlorine gas and fire-setting incendiary munitions.The Syrian and Russian governments deny all that and have accused the rebel groups of fabricating evidence of such attacks and of killing people who tried to flee their territory  which the insurgents deny.(Reporting by Tom Perry and Angus McDowall in Beirut and Vladamir Soldatkin; Writing by Angus McDowall; Editing by Peter Graff)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 29  2018
RICHFIELD  Ohio — President Trump heralded a new trade agreement with South Korea at his first public appearance in nearly a week on Thursday  but then immediately suggested that he might delay finalizing it while negotiating with North Korea over its nuclear program.“I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea ” Mr. Trump said  immediately after celebrating the new agreement. “Does everybody understand that? You know why  right? You know why? Because it’s a very strong card.”He added  “We’ll probably hold that deal up for a little while  see how it all plays out.”It was unclear what leverage Mr. Trump believed he could gain in the North Korea talks by delaying the deal with the South. The move could be an attempt by Mr. Trump to prod President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to hold a firm line with North Korea when talks begin over its nuclear program. Raj Shah  a White House spokesman  said in a statement that South Korea and the United States had reached an agreement “in principle.”“The president  taking into account all relevant considerations — including negotiations with North Korea — will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States ” he said.AdvertisementBut Mr. Trump’s comments seemed to undercut a weeklong White House effort to promote the agreement. And they were in keeping with the at-times confusing tone of Mr. Trump’s speech at a muddy-floored training center for union workers here in this Cleveland suburb: His appearance was billed as an attempt to promote his infrastructure plan  but Mr. Trump addressed it only briefly near the end of his remarks  and said it was unlikely to pass soon.AdvertisementAfter a week marked by persistent scandals and high-profile staff departures  policy was not at the forefront of the president’s mind. Mr. Trump seemed intently focused on delivering his own progress report to supporters on a range of red-meat issues  including his zeal for improving border security  his promise to construct a border wall with Mexico  his administration’s efforts to roll back what he called “job killing” regulations and his thwarting of Democrats.“Really  I have gotten done much more than I promised ” Mr. Trump said. “We did a lot of things I didn’t even promise.”In the driving rain  Mr. Trump made his way to the training center  where he had been scheduled to sell an ambitious plan that would try to leverage $200 billion in federal spending to generate $1.5 trillion in total spending on projects such as tunnels  bridges and highways. White House officials had framed the event as a ramp-up  but this conflicted with the president’s decision to say he would push the plan to next year  declaring that he did not expect it to pass at least until after the November midterm elections.Also curiously  Mr. Trump spent little time on the trade deal struck with South Korea this week  which had been a win for his administration. That continued a relatively muted celebration: The announcement of that agreement’s details came not from Mr. Trump or his White House  but from South Korean officials; Trump administration officials unveiled the plan days later in a conference call with reporters.Instead  Mr. Trump disparaged a previous version of a South Korea trade agreement as a “horror show” and a “Hillary Clinton special.” He mused to the crowd that he might hold up finalizing the deal while he pursues planned talks with North Korea.“Certainly  the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit  would you say?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd. “We’ll see how it all turns out.”Mr. Trump seemed to veer off script in other areas as well. At one point  he suggested that he planned to pull American troops out of Syria  where they have aided a military campaign that has recaptured the vast majority of the territory once controlled by the Islamic State  or ISIS. “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS ” he said. “We’ll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crowd applauded  he added: “Very soon  very soon we’re coming out. We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”AdvertisementThe comment seemed in conflict with plans by his national security team to keep a small force in place. As recently as Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground” and had “drawn off slightly” to avoid accidental conflict with Russian troops  they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.Some foreign policy specialists said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Syria would leave a dangerous void. “If we’re pulling those troops out  we’re ceding the remnants of Syria to the Russians and the Iranians and the other actors  which actually I would argue would be a big victory for Russia ” said Jamie M. Fly  a Republican scholar at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.Mr. Trump eventually focused on infrastructure on Thursday  zeroing in on his plan to speed up permitting. But the subject and timing of the president’s focus on his plan  announced in February  are curious. Congressional Republicans have not shown much appetite for taking up the infrastructure package  and neither have Democrats  who prefer proposals with much more federal spending.Mr. Trump acknowledged some of that reality in his remarks.“I don’t think you’re going to get Democrat support very much ” he said. “You’re probably going to have to wait until after the election.”Administration officials have not mounted any sort of effort  in public or private  that matches the scale of the pressure campaign they employed before the passage of Mr. Trump’s signature tax cut package last year. Perhaps the most prominent advocate of the infrastructure proposal  Gary D. Cohn  recently left his post as director of the National Economic Council. His successor  Larry Kudlow  is less enthusiastic about increases in federal infrastructure spending.The administration envisions states  local governments and the private sector contributing the bulk of the funds  a recipe that experts doubt would result in anywhere close to the targeted level of investment.Richard Trumka  the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.  which has lobbied for a large infrastructure bill  said he was skeptical that the president’s visit would spur any action.“He and Congress didn’t blink whenever they shelled out a trillion and a half dollars in tax giveaways for the rich ” Mr. Trumka said  “but we haven’t seen a nickel yet for infrastructure. He can talk about it forever  but he’s got to do something.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the minority leader  echoed that sentiment on Thursday. “Democrats are eager to work with the administration on infrastructure ” he said  “but there’s been a lack of seriousness on this issue from the White House.”Katie Rogers reported from Richfield  and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Praise for Trade Deal  Then Trump Suggests That He Might Delay It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  9:11 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The U.S. State Department granted a visa to a man in Iran hoping to donate bone marrow to his U.S. citizen brother with blood cancer  obtaining a rare waiver to President Donald Trump's travel ban  the family's lawyer said on Thursday.Mahsa Khanbabai  a lawyer based in Massachusetts  said she received a call on Thursday from the consulate in Yerevan  Armenia where Kamiar Hashemi had applied for a visa in February after he learned he was a rare 100 percent match for a transplant that could potentially save his brother's life.The status of the visa application was "refused" on the Department's website but Khanbabai said she was told on the call that a waiver had been granted  two days after Reuters first reported on the case  and that Hashemi should make arrangements to travel to Armenia to pick it up.The State Department through a spokeswoman said it was unable to comment on a specific visa case.Trump's travel ban  which the U.S. Supreme Court allowed to go into effect on Dec. 8 after months of legal wrangling  puts permanent bars on most travelers to the United States from Iran  Libya  Syria  Yemen  Somalia  Chad and North Korea  as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted  attorneys and applicants say the process is opaque with few clear guidelines on how to apply and why waivers are  or are not  granted.AdvertisementSince the ban took effect  the State Department told Reuters more than 375 waivers have been approved  but declined to say for which countries and out of how many applications."It's unfortunate that so much effort had to go into getting just one  clearly urgent  visa approved " said Khanbabai. "There are thousands of people are stuck  also with urgent cases  with no idea what is happening."Advertisement(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »