AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:55 P.M. E.D.T.
GENEVA —  War crimes investigators and activists have amassed an "overwhelming volume" of testimony  images and videos documenting atrocities committed by all sides during Syria's war  a U.N. quasi-prosecutorial body said in its first report.The team  led by former French judge Catherine Marchi-Uhel  said it is preparing case files and has engaged with war crimes investigative units of various states including in Europe  whose courts can exercise universal jurisdiction to prosecute.In the future  an existing body - such as the International Criminal Court - or a new court could be given jurisdiction for Syria  according to the report.The team expects to finaliZe an agreement soon with the Commission of Inquiry (COI) on Syria on getting access to testimony and evidence collected by that separate team of U.N. investigators for the past six years  the report said.Advertisement"The volume of videos and other images - as well as the role played by social media - is unprecedented in any other accountability process with respect to international crimes to date " said the report by Marchi-Uhel's team.Advertisement"...It is not possible to prosecute all of the crimes committed  given their vast number " it added.But there is a need to sure "fair representation" by prosecuting crimes committed on all sides  and sexual and gender-based crimes  as well as violations against children  will be a priority  said the report  released on Monday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Investigators were also seeking to obtain information on the use of chemical weapons in Syria from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.A COI report on March 15 said Syrian government forces and allied militias had raped and sexually assaulted women  girls and men in a campaign to punish opposition communities - acts that constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity.Led by Paulo Pinheiro  the COI has accused Syrian government forces of committing war crimes and potentially crimes against humanity  including mass executions  and some opposition groups of international crimes such as murder and torture.Marchi-Uhel's team said its work would proceed independently of any Syrian peace process and be based on the principle that no amnesty can be granted for "core international crimes".(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Mark Heinrich)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  3:35 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  European Union leaders on Monday said they received no concrete answers from Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan to a long list of concerns including Turkey's operation in Syria to the jailing of journalists."We didn't achieve any kind of concrete compromise today " European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after talks with Erdogan in the Bulgarian costal town of Varna."But I still hope that will be possible in the future... Only progress on these issues will allow us to improve the EU-Turkey relations  including the accession process."(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Gabriela Baczynska)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  3:52 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  The European Union is worried over President Tayyip Erdogan's adherence to the rule of law at home and his actions in Syria and in the east Mediterranean but will go on offering its support for Syrian refugees  the bloc's senior officials said."Our meeting today demonstrated that while our relationship is going through difficult times  in areas where we do cooperate  we cooperate well " European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after an EU-Turkey summit in Varna."We reconfirm our readiness to keep up the dialogue and conversation and work together to overcome current difficulties with a view to unleashing the potential of our partnership."(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Gabriela Baczynska)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:07 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday that more than 130 people could have been exposed to the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury earlier this month."We assess that more than 130 people in Salisbury could have been potentially exposed to this nerve agent " May said in a statement delivered to parliament.May also said that Britain had information that indicated Russia over the last decade had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents  probably for assassination.She added that Russia had covered up the use of chemical weapons in Syria by the Assad government.Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.(Reporting by Elizabeth Piper  writing by Andy Bruce; editing by Guy Faulconbridge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:01 P.M. E.D.T.
LONDON —  British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday that more than 130 people could have been exposed to the military-grade nerve agent that poisoned Russian ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury earlier this month."We assess that more than 130 people in Salisbury could have been potentially exposed to this nerve agent " May said in a statement delivered to parliament.May also said that Britain had information that indicated Russia over the last decade had investigated ways of delivering nerve agents  probably for assassination.She added that Russia had covered up the use of chemical weapons in Syria by the Assad government.Moscow has denied being behind the attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the southern English city of Salisbury on March 4.(Reporting by Elizabeth Piper  writing by Andy Bruce; editing by Guy Faulconbridge)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  1:22 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  The last rebel group fighting in Syria's eastern Ghouta said on Monday it was still trying to negotiate an end to the army's assault  dismissing a Russian report that it was ready to leave the stronghold near Damascus.All other insurgent groups there have agreed to surrender their territory in deals mediated by the government's ally Moscow  bringing President Bashar al-Assad to the cusp of his biggest victory over the rebels in more than a year.But the Jaish al-Islam group has kept hold of the town of Douma. "The negotiations are still ongoing without reaching a final agreement till this moment " said spokesman Hamza Birqdar in a social media message.A Russian officer earlier said on Monday the group had signalled during talks it was ready to lay down its arms. "(This) is a lie and devoid of truth " Birqdar said. "An attempt to insist on forced displacement will be catastrophic " he added.AdvertisementThe group's fighters skirmished with the Syrian army on one front of the Douma pocket on Monday  said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  a Britain-based war monitoring group. The army fired shells into the town  it added.AdvertisementUnder the Russian deals  scores of buses have left the area since Thursday carrying fighters from other rebel groups  their families and civilians who do not want to come back under Assad's rule  to opposition areas in northwestern Syria.On Monday  a long line of buses stood waiting at a road junction  waiting to take thousands more people north.They were leaving the towns of Arbin  Zamalka  Ein Terma and Jobar after the Failaq al-Rahman group which held the area agreed a surrender deal on Friday.BUSES LEAVEMore than 40 buses had filled with evacuees by Monday afternoon  after scores had left from there and from a separate enclave in the town of Harasta  where rebels accepted a deal on Thursday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Footage on state television on Monday showed four small children looking from the window of one bus as it prepared to depart  and another driving past an immense billboard depicting Assad's father  who ruled Syria from 1971-2000.Pro-opposition Orient television showed an earlier convoy that had arrived in Idlib from eastern Ghouta. People clambered off buses  lifting small children and large sacks of belongings. A fighter with a rifle slung over his shoulder stood nearby.Russia has promised the rebels will be safe  but insurgent groups have said they do not trust Moscow to protect them.Syria's government has won a string of victories since Russia entered the war on his side in 2015  often using siege and bombardment to force rebels to surrender.AdvertisementA full conquest of eastern Ghouta would be Assad's biggest win since driving rebels from Aleppo in December 2016  though insurgents remain entrenched in areas of northwestern and southwestern Syria.Western countries and rights groups have accused Damascus and Moscow of indiscriminate bombardment  including the targeting of civilian infrastructure and the use of barrel bombs  chlorine gas and incendiary explosives.They deny that and say their offensives  including the one against eastern Ghouta which started on Feb. 18 with a crushing bombardment  are necessary to free civilians from the rule of Islamist militants and end mortar attacks on government areas.(This version of the story corrects identity of Jaish al-Islam official).(Reporting By Ellen Francis and Angus McDowall in Beirut and Maria Kiselyova in Moscow; Editing by Andrew Heavens)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  6:56 A.M. E.D.T.
CANBERRA  Australia —  The head of the United Nations food agency warned Monday that the relocation of Islamic State group members from the Middle East to Africa could trigger a massive new European migrant crisis.David Beasley  executive director of the World Food Program  said many of the militants who fled Syria amid the collapse of the Islamic State group's self-described caliphate had ended up in the greater Sahel region  a belt of semi-arid land spanning east-west across Africa and home to 500 million people.Islamic State militants are now collaborating with other extremist groups  including al-Qaida  al-Shabab and Boko Haram  to create "extraordinary difficulties" across the Sahel  Beasley said in an interview with The Associated Press.He said he has warned European leaders that they could face a far larger migrant crisis from the Sahel than the Syrian conflict generated if they do not help provide the region with food and stability.Advertisement"You're talking about the greater Sahel region of 500 million people  so the Syria crisis could be like a drop in the bucket compared to what's  coming your way " Beasley said he told them.Advertisement"What they're now doing is coming into an already fragile area  a very destabilized area because of climate impact and governance  and they're infiltrating  recruiting  using food as a weapon of recruitment to destabilize so that they can have mass migration into Europe " he said."Mother after mother will tell you that 'My husband did not want to join ISIS or al-Qaida  but we had no food ' and if you haven't fed your little girl or little boy in two weeks and the alternative is signing up with ISIS  you sign up " Beasley added  referring to the group  also known as Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.The World Food Program wants to provide stability  economic growth and sustainable development as well as food to the region  said Beasley  who was in Australia for talks with the government on funding strategies.The Sahel — which includes Burkina Faso  Chad  Niger  Mali and Mauritania — is vulnerable to droughts and floods and faces constant food insecurity.Five nations have also been grappling with a growing menace from extremists  including groups linked to al-Qaida's North Africa branch.In February 2017  the so-called "Group of Five" agreed to assemble a 5 000-strong force to combat extremist groups  organized crime and human trafficking.U.N. experts monitoring the implementation of sanctions on Mali warned this month that the conflict-wracked West African nation and its neighbors "face intensified terrorist threats " especially in the border area between Burkina Faso  Mali and Niger.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The experts' interim report said the militant group calling itself the official al-Qaida branch in Mali and the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara extremist group have declared that "jihadist groups are working together" to fight the 5 000 troops.AdvertisementIn January  the U.N. Security Council threatened sanctions against parties in Mali who obstruct or delay the full implementation of the peace deal agreed to by Mali's government  Tuareg separatists and armed groups.The experts concluded after their Mali visit in February that "all parties to the agreement are responsible for delays."Mali has been in turmoil since a 2012 uprising prompted mutinous soldiers to overthrow the country's president. The power vacuum that was created ultimately led to an Islamic insurgency and a French-led war that ousted the jihadists from power in 2013. But insurgents remain active in the region.The U.N. panel said "insecurity continues to rage and is now shifting increasingly toward the center of the country" from the north.Across the country  it said  "an estimated 4.1 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance."The experts said the extremist group Jama Nusrat Ul-Islam wa Al-Muslimin  which positioned itself as the al-Qaida branch in Mali  and Islamic State in the Greater Sahara have claimed attacks not only in Mali but in Niger  in the Tahoua and Tillaberi regions.In Burkina Faso  the experts said  "the terrorist group Ansar Al-Islam has multiplied attacks in the last months against the government  including two attacks against Burkinabe security forces in Soum province on Dec. 2 and Dec. 21."Beasley told the Security Council last week that the number of people around the world in danger of dying unless they get food urgently surged to 124 million last year — mainly because "people won't stop shooting at each other."He said by video link that almost 32 million of those acutely hungry people live in four conflict-wracked countries: Somalia  Yemen  South Sudan and northeastern Nigeria  where famine was averted last year.AdvertisementGlobally  Beasley said  60 percent of the 815 million chronically hungry people who don't know where their next meal is coming from live in conflict areas.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:46 P.M. E.D.T.
VARNA  Bulgaria —  European Union leaders said talks with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan on Monday offered no answers to a long list of concerns including over Turkey's intervention in Syria and the jailing of journalists at home.At a summit that host Bulgaria described as "charged with great tension"  the bloc vowed to keep funds flowing for a refugee deal with Ankara  but disappointed Turkish demands for deeper trade ties or visa-free travel to Europe.Despite criticism from European governments of what many view as Erdogan's growing authoritarianism  EU leaders left the door open to Turkey's stalled bid for membership to the bloc  but said only he could act to remove the obstacles to accession."I raised all our concerns  as you know it was a long list"  European Council President Donald Tusk told reporters after the talks held in the Black Sea port city of Varna.Advertisement"If you are asking me if we achieved some solutions or compromises - my answer is: no " he added. "Our position is clear - only progress on these issues will allow us to improve EU-Turkey relations  including the accession process".AdvertisementErdogan  who has alarmed the West with a massive purge since a failed coup attempt in July 2016  remains an important ally in the U.S.-led NATO alliance  the fight against Islamic militants and as a destination for many Syrians fleeing war.Turkey shares borders with Iraq and Syria as well as influence with Russia in the Black Sea region  but the EU is still its biggest foreign investor and trading partner.EU leaders cited these geostrategic interest as common ground for greater cooperation with Turkey  despite differences."While our relationship is going through difficult times  in areas where we do cooperate  we cooperate well " Tusk told reporters.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.STRATEGIC PARTNERSOver a two-hour dinner of "Slav salad"  turbot fished from the Black Sea and local wines  Erdogan said he pressed EU counterparts for progress in talks on letting Turks visit Europe without visas and a deeper customs union."We hope to have left the difficult times with the EU behind"  Erdogan said. "Turkey and the EU are long-term strategic partners. It would be a serious mistake for the bloc to push Turkey out of its enlargement politics".Only on Erdogan's plea for EU funds under a March 2016 deal to take in migrants fleeing the country's war did the bloc's leaders convey their full support.However  on the issue of Turkey's membership negotiations  which began in 2005  then stalled for five years and have now effectively collapsed  they seemed to be talking past each other.AdvertisementBrussels considers the EU membership bid a separate process focussed on rule of law  press freedoms and economic reforms. EU officials say Turkey's post-coup crackdown on civil rights has taken it further from complying with EU membership.Objections to Turkey's military sweep northwest into Syria’s Afrin region and a standoff over Mediterranean gas with EU members Greece and Cyprus have added to grievances.Erdogan has also made more foes in Europe in the past year over what some view as hostile rhetoric  including comparing the Dutch and German governments to Nazis  with some calling for an end to accession talks.(Additional reporting by Robin Emmott in Brussels and Tulay Karadeniz in Varna; writing by Alissa de Carbonnel and Robin Emmott; editing by John Stonestreet and G Crosse)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 26  2018  9:56 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Russia's military said Monday it expects to reach an agreement with a major Syrian rebel group to arrange its exit from the last rebel-held town in eastern Ghouta in another key victory for President Bashar Assad's forces as they push to gain control of the region on the edge of Damascus.Douma is the only town on the eastern outskirts of the Syrian capital still held by rebels  after government forces captured all other opposition areas they had besieged for years.The town  controlled by the powerful Army of Islam  is also home to tens of thousands of people  including many who were displaced over the past weeks of heavy fighting.Lt. Gen. Stanislav Gadzhimagomedov told Russian news agencies on Monday in Syria that Russia's military is in talks with the Army of Islam to discuss its withdrawal from Douma.AdvertisementGadzhimagomedov  who is the deputy head of the Chief Operational Department at the Russian General Staff  said he expects Russian troops to "take them out soon " and that the rebels have reportedly indicated their willingness to lay down arms.AdvertisementHowever  the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said there are divisions within the rebel group over the negotiations  with some hard-liners refusing any talks with Russians. The Observatory said some fighters asked to be allowed to go to the southern province of Daraa  but that the Russians rejected this request.Syria's pro-government Al-Watan daily said the Army of Islam and the Russians have reached an "understanding " adding that each side will study a draft agreement within the next three days.Al-Watan quoted Syrian legislator Mohammed Kheir Seiryoul  who is originally from Douma  as saying that the understanding could lead to an agreement to dissolve the Army of Islam. During this period  its members would hand over their heavy weapons and the Syrian government would assume control of state institutions in the town.A civilian committee representing Douma said in a statement released late Sunday after meeting Russian officials that the negotiations "are extremely difficult and no quick results should be expected."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Talks with the Russians will resume within three days  it said.Douma-based opposition activist Haitham Bakkar said the town was subjected to some artillery shelling early on Monday that wounded several people.The negotiations on Douma came after thousands of rebel fighters and their families left three other eastern Ghouta pockets in the past weeks  after years of siege and weeks of heavy bombardment by the Syrian army and Russia's air force.On Monday  a convoy of 56 buses carrying 3 641 people  including 850 fighters from various rebel factions  was preparing to leave the towns of Jobar  Zamalka  Ein Terma  and Arbeen toward Idlib  state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV reported.The Russian Defense Ministry's Center for Reconciliation in Syria said in a statement that more than 400 people left Douma early Monday. It put the total figure of civilians and rebels evacuated from the area since the Russia-sponsored "humanitarian pauses" were announced at 114 000 people.AdvertisementArmy of Islam spokesman Hamza Bayraqdar blasted the group's former ally  the Faylaq al-Rahman rebel group  accusing it of helping government forces capture more than 80 percent of rebel-held districts after they dried out artificial swamps set up by insurgents to slow down the army's offensive."We had defensive plans prepared  but regrettably Faylaq al-Rahman cut the water that was brought from Barada River " Bayraqdar told the Dubai-based Al-Arabiya TV. "This sped up the regime's advance."___Vasilyeva reported from Moscow.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardBy expelling scores of Russians from the United States and 21 other countries  President Trump and allied leaders have imposed the most significant punishment yet on Russia and its leader  Vladimir Putin. It’s a move that is well overdue for Mr. Trump  whose long refusal to criticize Mr. Putin and hesitancy to act against Russia’s malign behavior have raised suspicions that Moscow knows secrets it could use to blackmail the American president.Monday’s development offers some hope that Mr. Trump may finally be forced to deal with the threat that Mr. Putin poses to the United States and its Western allies.Put the emphasis there on “hope.” Mr. Trump will have to go even further to push back effectively against Mr. Putin’s mischief  which runs the gamut from interference in the elections in America and other Western democracies to propelling the wars in Ukraine and Syria.The expulsion orders retaliate specifically for the poisoning of a former Russian spy  Sergei Skripal  and his daughter in Britain  for which the Kremlin has been blamed. On the American side  it includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers at the United Nations in New York and 48 at the Russian Embassy in Washington. Also  the Russian consulate in Seattle will be closed because of concerns that Russians were spying on a nearby submarine base and Boeing manufacturing facilities.Mr. Putin almost certainly will retaliate  continuing a downward spiral in Russian-American relations unheard-of since the Cold War. That will further disrupt the ability of the two nations to work on serious challenges  like ending the war in Syria and defusing a new nuclear arms race.It appears to be getting more difficult for Mr. Trump to remain passive in the face of Russian aggression. On March 15  he imposed sanctions on a series of Russian organizations and individuals for interference in the 2016 presidential election and other “malicious cyberattacks.”Yet  the president still panders to Mr. Putin  even as he intensifies criticism of the special counsel  Robert Mueller  and the former F.B.I. director’s investigation into Trump associates’ web of Russian ties.The most recent example occurred last week when Mr. Trump  who has infrequent calls with the leaders of America’s closest allies  made a point of calling Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his recent fraudulent re-election. Missing from the call was any scolding for the nerve-gas attack on the Russian spy that prompted Monday’s expulsions or any demand that Mr. Putin stop meddling in American elections.Even now  Mr. Trump is distancing himself from the expulsion order issued in his name  underscoring the incoherence in his approach. Rather than being introduced with powerful words from the president  the decision was announced in a White House statement saying the actions “make clear to Russia that its actions have consequences.”The United States and its allies must stay united in condemning Mr. Putin’s nefarious activities and holding him to account. The expulsions show Russia will pay a price for using chemical weapons on allied territory.But Mr. Trump has still not done much to counter Mr. Putin’s most dangerous initiative — meddling in the 2016 election and the coming November midterms. No  it will be impossible to see this administration as taking the threat seriously until Mr. Trump orders  at long last  a comprehensive campaign to repair weaknesses in the American electoral system and prevent tampering in future elections.He should also sanction Russian oligarchs — freezing their assets  barring them from the global banking system  preventing their children from attending Western schools — ensuring that Mr. Putin’s cronies feel America’s reach and use their influence to stop his aggression.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS