AdvertisementBy DECLAN WALSH and ERIC SCHMITTMARCH 25  2018
BENGHAZI  Libya — The United States military carried out its first ever drone strike against Qaeda militants in southern Libya this weekend  signaling a possibly significant expansion of the American counterterrorism campaign in the North African nation.Until now  the Pentagon had focused its counterterrorism strikes in Libya almost exclusively on Islamic State fighters and operatives farther north — eight since President Trump took office. In 2016  the military conducted nearly 500 airstrikes in the coastal city of Surt over several months to destroy the Islamic State’s stronghold there.But the attack on Saturday that the military’s Africa Command said had killed two militants — later identified by a spokeswoman as belonging to Al Qaeda’s branch in northwestern Africa — took place in the country’s southwest  a notorious haven for a deadly mix of Al Qaeda and other extremist groups that also operate in the Sahel region of Niger  Chad  Mali and Algeria.“This appears to be the continuation of expanding AFRICOM activity in Libya’s ungoverned areas ” said Deborah K. Jones  who served as United States ambassador to Libya from 2013 to 2015  referring to the Africa Command.AdvertisementA missile fired by the American drone struck a house in Ubari  435 miles south of Tripoli  in an area close to major oil fields that was wracked by violent ethnic feuding in 2015. Pictures in Libyan news media outlets showed a mutilated corpse lying in the rubble of a house  and a pair of shrapnel-ridden vehicles nearby. Local residents were quoted by the media outlets as saying the house had been frequented by foreigners.AdvertisementIn a statement  the military’s Africa Command said the strike had targeted militants with Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  an affiliate also known as AQIM  and had been carried out in coordination with the United Nations-backed unity government in Tripoli. “At this time  we assess no civilians were killed in this strike ” the statement said.The strike came as the Trump administration has been reassessing the American military commitment in North and West Africa after the ambush in Niger last fall that killed four American soldiers. The Pentagon has been preparing to fly armed drone missions from Niger’s capital  Niamey  a step that diplomats and analysts say could further widen the Pentagon’s shadow war in this part of the continent.In a sign of how the Pentagon has sought to obscure its operations in Libya and other parts of northwestern Africa  the Africa Command did not announce the strike on Saturday.It responded to questions from The New York Times late Saturday with a terse statement after media reports about the strike circulated in Libya. The statement did not identify where the drone had originated.Earlier this month  in response to a Times query  the Pentagon acknowledged for the first time that Green Berets working with government forces in Niger had killed 11 Islamic State fighters in a firefight in December. No Americans were hurt in that fight  the Pentagon said.Ubari is at the intersection of the powerful criminal and jihadist currents that have washed across Libya in recent years. Roughly equidistant from Libya’s borders with Niger  Chad and Algeria  the area’s seminomadic tribesmen are heavily involved in the smuggling of weapons  drugs and illegal migrants through the lawless deserts of southern Libya.Some have allied with Islamist militias  including Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  which operates across Algeria  Mali  Niger and Libya.AdvertisementThe area erupted into conflict in 2014 when a century-old peace treaty between the Tuareg and Tebu ethnic groups collapsed over a dispute about control of the fuel smuggling trade. The fighting  which occurred independently of the broader struggle for control of Libya after the 2011 overthrow of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi  raged for a year  killing hundreds and leaving many families displaced.The Tebu and Tuareg eventually struck a peace agreement  and a neutral militia currently keeps the peace in Ubari  but tensions remain. In November  Turkish engineers working at the city power station were kidnapped by unidentified gunmen  as was a Pakistani engineer at the station who went missing this month  according to local news media reports.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While some Tebu groups have allied with the United Nations-backed government in Tripoli  Tuareg factions have allied with Qaeda  which is also believed to have profited from the trade in smuggled fuel.In the statement on Saturday  Robyn M. Mack  a spokeswoman for the United States Africa Command  said that it was still assessing the results of the strike and that the purpose had been “to deny terrorists freedom of action and degrade their ability to reconsolidate.”But the command did not answer several other questions: Who were the two dead militants  and why were they important enough to kill with an airstrike? What role  if any  did France play in a region of Libya in which it has also conducted counterterrorism operations? And  most significantly  to what extent is the attack the start of an escalating campaign against a broad spectrum of extremists in northwestern Africa  or a one-off strike against high-profile Qaeda operatives?“Beginning a concerted strike campaign against AQIM or other AQ elements in the Sahel  akin to what we are doing in Yemen and Somalia  would mark a significant expansion of our counterterrorism efforts ” said Luke Hartig  a former senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council during the Obama administration.“If this is going to be the start of a broader campaign  it would be helpful to hear more from the administration about the threat posed by AQIM and why it merits putting our people in harm’s way and conducting strikes ” Mr. Hartig said.A senior French security official said France had played no role in the strike  but added that Paris was “very happy of this continued commitment of the U.S. to counterterrorism in Libya.”Questions about whether the American military  under the Trump administration  is seeking to blur the expanding scope of operations in Africa were raised this month when it was revealed that the United States had carried out four airstrikes in Libya between September and January that Africa Command did not disclose at the time. The military has said it will acknowledge such missions if asked about them  even if it does not affirmatively disclose them in a news release.AdvertisementMs. Mack said that Saturday’s attack was the first airstrike the United States had conducted against Al Qaeda in Libya. In fact  the United States conducted an airstrike in eastern Libya in June 2015 against Mokhtar Belmokhtar  the mastermind of the 2013 terrorist seizure of an Algerian gas plant that left 38 foreign hostages dead. Mr. Belmokhtar was a longtime Qaeda operative with ties to senior Qaeda leadership in Pakistan. Western intelligence officials today remain divided over whether he is dead.American efforts to hunt down Islamists in Libya’s vast deserts rely heavily on surveillance and airpower but also on alliances with the armed groups vying for control of Libya. Mohamed El Sallak  a spokesman for the United Nations-backed unity government  said on Twitter that the attack in Ubari on Saturday was part of the “strategic cooperation between Libya and the United States in the fight against terrorism.”But in Ubari  armed Tebu and Tuareg groups have sided with different sides in Libya’s chaotic struggle  and the unity government is by no means the dominant player.Some control a stretch of southern border  while others have allied with militias from the coastal cities of Misurata and Benghazi. The rising force now in the south is Field Marshal Khalifa Hifter  the commander of the Libyan National Army based in Benghazi.Since his forces ousted the last Islamist militias from Benghazi in December  Mr. Hifter has focused on the south  where he exerts influence through his fleet of aging warplanes and alliances with local armed groups.In Sebha  the largest southern city  Mr. Hifter and the rival United Nations-backed government are vying for control through local proxies. In Ubari  110 miles to the west  Mr. Hifter has allied with an ethnically mixed militia that is composed of former Qaddafi loyalists and more recent recruits.Declan Walsh reported from Benghazi  and Eric Schmitt from Washington. Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting from Berlin.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Strike in Libya Targeted Qaeda Haven.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  4:59 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Jaish al-Islam  the last rebel faction in control of territory in eastern Ghouta  said on Sunday it would not withdraw to other opposition-held parts of Syria as other rebel groups have done under deals negotiated with Syrian government ally Russia.After a month-long ground and air offensive and deals under which rebel fighters agreed to be transported to northern Syria  pro-Syrian government forces have taken control of most of what had been the last major rebel stronghold near the capital Damascus.Only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.Jaish al-Islam is currently negotiating with Russia over the future of the area and the people in it."Today the negotiations taking place ... are to stay in Ghouta and not to leave it " Jaish al-Islam's military spokesman Hamza Birqdar told Istanbul-based Syrian radio station Radio al-Kul via Skype from eastern Ghouta.AdvertisementBirqdar accused the Syrian government of trying to change the demographic balance of the eastern Ghouta by forcing out locals and replacing them with its allies.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.He said in the negotiations with Russia Jaish al-Islam is asking for guarantees that what remains of the local population will not be forced out.AdvertisementBoth Ahrar al-Sham and Failq al-Rahman  two other rebel groups formerly in charge of pockets of the eastern Ghouta  have accepted deals under which they withdraw to opposition-held Idlib in northwest Syria.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington  editing by David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  12:47 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  Hundreds of Syrian rebels and civilians were bused out of a second pocket of the besieged eastern Ghouta suburbs of Damascus on Sunday after rebels agreed to leave several towns and villages after years of siege and weeks of heavy bombardment.Close to 900 people were evacuated from the southernmost of three eastern Ghouta pockets on Sunday  according to state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV  following some 1 000 fighters  family members  and other civilians who departed late Saturday  as reported by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.They left in a fleet of buses  including the lime-green municipal buses that have come to symbolize defeat for the Syrian opposition and the rearrangement of Syria's population as the government takes back control of cities around the country.Fighters dressed in fatigues slumped in their seats and hid their faces from roadside news cameras  while children peered out of the open windows.AdvertisementMany are unsure if they will ever be able to return."I'm going to visit the tomb of my father (for the) last time " tweeted Muhammad Najem  a 15 year-old boy who said he was going to board the buses to Idlib  a rebel-stronghold in northwest Syria.Advertisement"We are going on an unknown journey to the refugee camps in Idlib. We don't know what is our fate there " said Najem in a separate video tweet.The evacuation is modeled on others in which rebels have surrendered swathes of territory around the capital and other major cities after years of siege and bombardment at the hands of President Bashar Assad's forces. They have been helpless against the government's overwhelming artillery and air power  boosted with support from Iran's Revolutionary Guard and Russia's air force.Rebels belonging to the Ahrar al-Sham and Faylaq al-Rahman factions began evacuating the central pocket of eastern Ghouta on Thursday. Some 7 000 people left the town of Harasta  bound for Idlib.Fighters loyal to the al-Qaida-linked Levant Liberation Committee  known by its Arabic acronym HTS  also began evacuating eastern Ghouta on Sunday  according to the Observatory.Rebels with the powerful Islam Army faction still controlled Douma  the largest town in eastern Ghouta  and the third and last pocket in the eastern Ghouta enclave. A delegation representing the town was in talks with Russia to reach a settlement that would have Russian forces deployed inside.Charities supporting the medical sector in Syrian opposition areas say evacuees were arriving to Hama  on the road to Idlib  bearing the marks of trauma  malnutrition  and other afflictions commensurate with the siege of eastern Ghouta. For four weeks  residents had to hide in overcrowded basements as the government shelled and bombed the region without pause.The Union of Medical Care and Relief Organizations said children and adults were arriving with intestinal infections  hepatitis  skin diseases and trauma injuries.AdvertisementBasel Termanini of the Syrian American Medical Society told journalists that local hospitals were filling up quickly and patients requiring critical care were being transferred to Turkey.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.More than 1 600 people were killed in the five weeks that the government assaulted eastern Ghouta  after holding it under siege since 2013  according to the Observatory.The Syrian government is giving rebels and male residents the choice of laying down their weapons and signing up for military conscription or leaving with their families to rebel-held territories elsewhere in Syria. Tens of thousands across Syria have elected to leave with their families instead of serving or risking arrest by the state's notorious security services.Critics say the evacuations amount to forced displacement that legitimizes the government's brutal siege tactics  which have deprived hundreds of thousands of civilians of food and medicine and subjected them to years of violence. U.N. inquiries and top U.N. officials have likened the tactics to war crimes and crimes against humanity.The U.N. and the International Committee of the Red Cross have refused to facilitate the eastern Ghouta evacuations.Close to 11 million people have been forced from their homes by the violence that has swept through the country since the government began cracking down on Arab Spring protests in 2011.The government has restored its authority in most of the major population centers across the country  but there are few indications that refugees and the internally displaced are returning to their homes in large numbers.Many of the cities and towns once held by the opposition have been razed by government forces  and resources and funding for reconstruction are scarce.Meanwhile  Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said his country's forces were aiming to take the town of Tel Rifaat in north Syria  after Turkey and allied Syrian opposition forces captured the Afrin region from a Syrian Kurdish militia.AdvertisementTurkey says the People's Protection Units  known by the Kurdish acronym YPG  is a threat to its national security. The YPG still holds Tel Rifaat  approximately 21 kilometers (13 miles) southeast of Afrin. It also holds a vast expanse of frontier territory along northeast Syria. This area is not linked with the Afrin region. The U.S. has been an ally of the YPG in the war on Islamic State group  and it maintains military bases and a troop presence with the YPG in the northeast. But the Pentagon has refused to interfere with NATO-member Turkey's military operations in Afrin.Questions remain over whether the U.S. will allow Turkey and allied Syrian forces to advance on the YPG in Manbij  another town near the frontier. Turkish daily Hurriyet newspaper  quoting Syrian opposition commander Mohammed Shibil  said allied Syrian opposition forces were starting drills and preparations to oust the YPG.___Associated Press writer Zeynep Bilginsoy in Istanbul contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:47 A.M. E.D.T.
KABUL —  Russia has rejected comments by NATO's top commander in Afghanistan that it has been supporting and even supplying weapons to the Taliban  in a clash of words that underlines growing tension over Moscow's involvement in the conflict.In an interview with the BBC last week  General John Nicholson said that Russia had been acting to undermine U.S. efforts in Afghanistan despite shared interests in fighting terrorism and narcotics  with indications that Moscow was providing financial support and even arms."We've had weapons brought to this headquarters and given to us by Afghan leaders and said this was given by the Russians to the Taliban " he said.A statement from the Russian embassy in Kabul dismissed the comments as "idle gossip"  repeating previous denials by Russian officials.Advertisement"Once again  we insist that such statements are absolutely baseless and appeal to officials not to talk nonsense " the embassy said.AdvertisementU.S. commanders  including Nicholson  have said on several occasions over the past year that Russia may be supplying arms to the Taliban although no confirmed evidence has so far been made public.However  Nicholson's comments were unusually blunt and came in a context of growing tensions between NATO members and Moscow over the case of Sergei Skripal  a former intelligence agent found poisoned with a rare nerve agent in Britain.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Russian officials have said that their limited contacts with the Taliban were aimed at encouraging peace talks and ensuring the safety of Russian citizens. Moscow has offered to help coordinate peace talks in Afghanistan.Taliban officials have told Reuters that the group has had significant contacts with Moscow since at least 2007  adding that Russian involvement did not extend beyond "moral and political support".Moscow has been critical of the United States and NATO over their handling of the war in Afghanistan  but Russia initially helped provide helicopters for the Afghan military and agreed to a supply route for coalition materials through Russia.Most of that cooperation has fallen apart as relations between Russia and the West deteriorated in recent years over the conflicts in Ukraine and Syria.(Reporting by James Mackenzie; Editing by Richard Borsuk)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  6:14 P.M. E.D.T.
BEIRUT —  More than 5 000 Syrian rebel fighters and their families boarded  77 buses on Sunday to wait to be taken from eastern Ghouta  Syrian state media said  in the second day of an evacuation from their former stronghold near the capital Damascus.The main rebel group in the Arbeen pocket of eastern Ghouta  Failaq al-Rahman  reached a deal on Friday under which fighters agreed to surrender the enclave to the government and be transported to an opposition-held area in northwest Syria.Around 1 000 fighters and their relatives left on Saturday  Syrian state news agency SANA said.After a month-long ground and air offensive and evacuation deals with Failaq al-Rahman and another rebel group  Ahrar al-Sham  pro-Syrian government forces control most of what had been a major rebel stronghold  just 15 km (9 miles) east of Damascus.Before the recent offensive  the suburb had an estimated population of 400 000. It had been under siege by government forces since 2013 and only the town of Douma  the most populous part of eastern Ghouta  remains under rebel control.AdvertisementThere have been negotiations but no deal yet between government forces and the main faction controlling Douma  Jaish al-Islam  which has said it wants to stay.AdvertisementTens of thousands of civilians have streamed out of Douma on foot during lulls in the bombardment of the past week. Hundreds more civilians left the area on Sunday  carrying children and hauling their belongings.Russian news agency RIA  citing the Russian defense ministry  said more than 108 000 civilians in total had left eastern Ghouta since it said a month ago that it would oversee daily humanitarian pauses in the fighting.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Moscow and Damascus say the Ghouta campaign is necessary to halt deadly rebel shelling of the capital.A military source told Reuters evacuation of Failaq al-Rahman fighters  who are coming from Zamalka  Jobar  Ein Terma and Arbeen towns  will take a couple of days to complete. They began boarding the buses on Sunday morning  but have not yet set off.State TV showed lines of green buses waiting. A young child could be seen dangling a bandaged hand out of a bus window. Some men covered their faces with scarves as they sat waiting.A number of fighters and family members who were transported last week from Harasta and Arbeen have arrived in rebel-held territory to the north  where many are receiving medical care  the opposition-run Hama health directorate said in a statement.(Reporting by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Daniel Wallis)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  1:32 P.M. E.D.T.
ISTANBUL —  President Tayyip Erdogan said on Sunday that Turkey had begun operations in Iraq's Sinjar region  an area where it has threatened a military incursion  two days after sources said Kurdish PKK militants would withdraw from the area."We said we would go into Sinjar. Now operations have begun there. The fight is internal and external " Erdogan told a crowd in the Black Sea province of Trabzon  without elaborating on what operations he was referring to.Iraq's Joint Operations Command denied that any foreign forces had crossed the border into Iraq."The operations command confirmed that the situation in Nineveh  Sinjar and the border areas was under the control of Iraqi security forces and there is no reason for troops to cross the Iraqi border into those areas " it said in a statement.Sources in Sinjar said there was no unusual military activity in the area on Sunday.The Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) has waged an insurgency against the Turkish state for decades. President Tayyip Erdogan said last week they were creating a new base in Sinjar  and that Turkish forces would attack if necessary.AdvertisementSources in northern Iraq said on Friday the PKK would withdraw from Sinjar  where it gained a foothold in 2014 after coming to the aid of the Yazidi minority community  who were under attack by Islamic State militants.AdvertisementThe PKK  considered a terrorist organisation by Turkey  the European Union and the United States  has for decades been based in Iraq's Qandil mountain range  near the border with Iran.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Turkish troops and their rebel allies swept into northwest Syria's Afrin town this month  the culmination of an eight-week campaign to drive Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters from the region. Turkey sees the YPG as terrorists and an extension of the outlawed PKK.Erdogan has vowed to extend the military operation along the Syrian border and on Sunday said the Turkish-led forces would take control of the town of Tel Rifaat.Many civilians and YPG have gathered in and around Tel Rifaat after Turkey seized control of Afrin. It is a Kurdish-controlled enclave  cut off from a larger expanse of Kurdish territory in the northeast of Syria.The United Nations said last week that around 75 000 people had been displaced to Tel Rifaat and surrounding areas from Afrin  and more were expected to come.(Additional reporting by Lisa Barrington in Beirut and Raya Jalabi in Baghdad.; Writing by Daren Butler; Editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Kevin Liffey)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  9:44 A.M. E.D.T.
TREBES  France —  A French bishop paid tribute Sunday to a police officer who lost his life after swapping himself with a supermarket employee held hostage by an Islamist extremist  saying his heroic sacrifice helped save the nation.Survivors and families of the four victims of Friday's rampage of attacks packed the Saint-Etienne-de-Trebes church for the special Mass honoring Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame.Members of the region's Muslim community were among those mourning at the special Palm Sunday service in the southern town of Trebes  near the medieval city of Carcassonne. The manager of the supermarket sat in the front row  alongside her husband  the town mayor.The bishop of Carcassonne and Narbonne  Alain Planet  hailed Beltrame's "extraordinary act  extraordinary devotion."Advertisement"It is better that one man dies for the people  so that the nation doesn't perish " the bishop said. He added that the horrific slayings have forced everyone to confront the reality of death and suffering across the world  noting turmoil in Sudan  the Middle East and elsewhere.AdvertisementThe Islamic State group claimed that the attacker — Radouane Lakdim  25  born in Morocco — was answering its call to target nations in the U.S.-led coalition fighting IS militants in Syria and Iraq.Lakdim was killed by police Friday after Beltrame helped them storm the market. Lakdim also killed the supermarket's butcher  a shopper and a passenger in the car that Lakdim had hijacked earlier in nearby Carcassonne. He shot at riot police  one of whom was injured  then headed to the supermarket in Trebes.Two people have been detained for questioning in the case.French police searching Lakdim's home in Carcassonne found notes referring to the Islamic State group that appeared to be a final testament  a judicial official said on Saturday. Also found were a computer and telephone.Three homemade explosive devices  a handgun and a hunting knife were discovered inside the supermarket  suggesting the attacker may have had still deadlier plans.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The head of France's National Gendarmerie  Gen. Richard Lizurey  visited the post in nearby Carcassonne where Beltrame had been stationed since August 2017. He said the Lt. Col.'s "exceptional act" should serve as an inspiration to colleagues.Split-second decisions in a crisis can override protocol  he said."(A gendarme) has only a few seconds to act  to make the right decision " Lizurey said.He hailed police forces as "the cement of society" but said facing "terrorism is not an individual fight. It's a collective struggle."Moussa Azidad  a teacher in Trebes  said fellow Muslims must send a message to show they  too  must be present in the fight against terror.Advertisement"We are part of France  we are French ... so we have to  during very difficult times like these  we have to be there " he said.French President Emmanuel Macron has ordered a national memorial for Beltrame.Across the Atlantic  U.S. President Donald Trump said Sunday on Twitter the deadly shooting in southern France showed the need for stronger measures in the fight against the Islamic State group  including border security.Trump tweeted "France honors a great hero " citing the bravery of Beltrame. He went on to say there's "so much bravery around the world" in the fight against IS but added "Even stronger measures needed  especially at borders!"___Schaeffer reported from Trebes. Angela Charlton in Paris contributed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:29 P.M. E.D.T.
PARIS —  Hundreds of people including friends  family and local officials attended a memorial service in Trebes on Sunday to honor the victims of the Islamist militant attack that killed a gendarme and three other people in southwest France last week.Gendarme Arnaud Beltrame  44  who voluntarily took the place of a female hostage during the supermarket siege on Friday in the tranquil town near the Pyrenees mountains  received a special tribute for what French President Emmanuel Macron had described as a heroic act.Beltrame's death was announced early on Saturday. A judicial source told Reuters his throat had been cut  referring to the autopsy results. He had also been shot during the attack but these wounds were not fatal  the source said.Other victims were a winegrower who had been in a car the attacker stole in Carcassonne  as well as a butcher and a shopper at the supermarket.Advertisement"A life given can not be lost. It transcends misfortune to rally us in unity  it calls us to believe in life stronger than death " regional Carcassonne and Narbonne Bishop Alain Planet  said at the ceremony  which was also attended by representatives of the police and the Muslim community.AdvertisementTRUMP TRIBUTEU.S. President Donald Trump emphasized Beltrame's heroic act on Sunday after sharing his "thoughts and prayers" with the victims of the attacks the previous day."France honors a great hero. Officer died after bravely swapping places with hostage in ISIS (Islamic State)-related terror attack " he said on Twitter.Flowers and messages in tribute to Beltrame were placed in front of the gendarmerie of the medieval city of Carcassonne  where he was based.Several cities  the National Assembly and police stations across France flew their flags at half-mast in his honor.Macron decided on Saturday that France would hold a national tribute to Beltrame in the coming days."He fell as a hero  giving up his life to halt the murderous enterprise of a jihadist terrorist " Macron said in a statement shortly before dawn on Saturday.The attacker was identified by authorities as Radouane Lakdim  a 25-year-old Moroccan-born French national from Carcassonne.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Beltrame had offered to trade places with a hostage the attacker was still holding in the supermarket  whereafter he took her place and left his mobile phone on a table  line open. When shots rang out  elite police stormed the building to kill the assailant  French prosecutor Francois Molin said on Friday.The Islamic State militant group on Friday claimed responsibility for the attack.Several hundred investigators devoted to the inquiry were still checking the claim and looking into possible help Lakdim could have received  Macron's office said.AdvertisementEXPLOSIVE DEVICESSearches at the attacker's home on Saturday showed notes referring to Islamic State in what appeared to be a will  as well as a phone and a computer  judicial sources said.Investigators also found three improvised explosive devices  a 7.65 mm handgun and a hunting knife in the supermarket  a source said.Police were still holding two people as part of the investigation - a woman connected to Lakdim and a 17-year-old male said to be one of his friends  the judicial source said.Since 2015 more than 240 people have been killed in France in attacks by assailants who either pledged allegiance to Islamic State or were inspired by the ultra-hardline group.France is part of a group of countries whose warplanes have been bombing Islamic State strongholds in Iraq and Syria  where in recent months IS has lost much of a self-proclaimed "caliphate" of territory it seized in 2014.Friday's assault was the first deadly Islamist attack in France since last October  when a man stabbed two young women to death in the port city of Marseille before soldiers killed him.Several attacks over the past year or more have targeted police and soldiers deployed in large numbers to protect civilians and patrol sensitive spots such as airports and train stations.(Reporting by Sybille de La Hamaide and Emmanuel Jarry; Additional reporting by Pascale Antonie; Editing by David Goodman and David Evans)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »