AdvertisementBy MARK MAZZETTIMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — A top Trump campaign official had repeated communications during the final weeks of the 2016 presidential race with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence  according to a document released on Tuesday by the special counsel investigating Russian interference in the election.The campaign official  Rick Gates  had frequent phone calls in September and October 2016 with a person the F.B.I. believes had active links to Russian spy services at the time  the document said. Mr. Gates also told an associate the person “was a former Russian Intelligence Officer with the G.R.U. ” the Russian military intelligence agency.The special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  is investigating numerous contacts between President Trump’s advisers and Russia-linked individuals and entities leading up to and after the November 2016 election. The document  filed in Mr. Mueller’s name  stated that the communications between Mr. Gates and the individual were “pertinent to the investigation.”The individual is identified only as “Person A ” and the document describes him as someone who worked for Mr. Gates and Paul Manafort  Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman  as part of their earlier representation of Russia-aligned parties and politicians in Ukraine  including the former president of Ukraine. A person with knowledge of the matter identified Person A as Konstantin V. Kilimnik  who for years was Mr. Manafort’s right-hand man in Ukraine.Mr. Manafort has told associates that he does not believe that Mr. Kilimnik has ties to Russian intelligence  but the document released on Tuesday shows that Mr. Gates told others of his history in the intelligence services. That history was widely discussed for years among people who worked with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates in Ukraine.AdvertisementAt the time of the calls  Mr. Gates was the Trump campaign’s liaison to the Republican National Committee and  before that  he was the campaign’s deputy chairman. Mr. Manafort served as the campaign chairman until August 2016  when he resigned amid the growing controversy about his work in Ukraine.AdvertisementBoth Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates were indicted last year for money laundering and other financial crimes committed while  the charges said  they tried to hide the money they received for their Ukraine work. Last month  Mr. Gates pleaded guilty to financial fraud and lying to investigators and has agreed to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s investigation.Mr. Manafort has vowed to fight the charges. In February 2017  he told The New York Times he had “never knowingly spoken to Russian intelligence officers  and I have never been involved with anything to do with the Russian government of the Putin administration or any other issues under investigation today.”What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.But  he added  “It’s not like these people wear badges that say  ‘I’m a Russian intelligence officer.’ ”Mr. Kilimnik was born in Ukraine when it was still part of the Soviet Union  and he served in the Russian Army as a linguist. Last year  as scrutiny mounted of his work with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates in Ukraine  he steadfastly denied any association with Russian intelligence. An investigation by Ukrainian prosecutors into Mr. Kilimnik’s possible links to Russian spy agencies was closed late last year without charges.Mr. Kilimnik has maintained residences in Moscow and Kiev  the capital of Ukraine  and has traveled regularly between them during years of working for Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates on behalf of various Russia-aligned oligarchs and political parties.The new document is a sentencing memorandum for Alex van der Zwaan  a lawyer who pleaded guilty in February to lying to federal investigators about his conversations with Mr. Gates in 2016 about work the two men did in Ukraine.Mr. van der Zwaan was an attorney at a firm that worked with Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates to prepare a report used to defend Viktor F. Yanukovych  the former Ukrainian president  from international criticism over the prosecution and incarceration of one of his political rivals.AdvertisementMr. van der Zwaan “worked closely” on the report with Mr. Gates and Person A  according to a court filing submitted Tuesday night by Mr. van der Zwaan’s lawyers asking the judge for leniency in sentencing.Mr. van der Zwaan originally told Mr. Mueller’s investigators that he had not spoken to Mr. Gates since August 2016  but subsequently admitted he had lied after prosecutors confronted him with evidence of conversations.The sentencing document describes an observation by one unidentified witness in the investigation who said Mr. van der Zwaan had “gone native.”“That is  he had grown too close to Manafort  Gates  and Person A ” the document stated.According to the filing by his lawyers  Mr. van der Zwaan “had explored opportunities to leave Skadden to work directly for Gates and Manafort” in 2012 and 2013.Kenneth P. Vogel and Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Campaign Aide to Trump Tied to a Russian Official.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy NICHOLAS FANDOS and KATIE BENNERMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — The Justice Department’s inspector general  facing increasing political pressure from Republicans in Congress and Attorney General Jeff Sessions  said on Wednesday that his office would investigate the surveillance of a former Trump campaign official.The announcement came amid a stream of attacks in recent months from the White House and Republican lawmakers seeking to undermine the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election.The inspector general  Michael E. Horowitz  said he would examine whether law enforcement officials complied with the law and departmental policies in seeking permission from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to wiretap the former campaign adviser  Carter Page. Law enforcement officials had long had concerns that Mr. Page  a former investment banker based in Moscow  was acting as a Russian agent.Republicans have seized on details about the court-ordered surveillance of Mr. Page as evidence that the Justice Department abused its authority in the Russia investigation. Mr. Horowitz did not name Mr. Page in his announcement.AdvertisementMr. Horowitz said he would also review what the Justice Department and the F.B.I. knew at the time about a former British spy and longtime F.B.I. source  Christopher Steele  who provided information about Mr. Page that was included in the surveillance application.AdvertisementRepublicans on Capitol Hill welcomed the decision but acknowledged that it fell short of demands by three Republican committee chairmen that the Justice Department appoint a second special counsel to investigate the accusations of surveillance abuses.“This is not a substitute for a special counsel to investigate this and other matters ” said Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia  the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee  adding that the inspector general’s office “does not have authority to compel witness interviews  including from past employees  so its investigation will be limited in scope in comparison to a special counsel investigation.”Democrats feared that the investigation would further politicize a Justice Department that seems intent on appeasing President Trump. But they said they were confident that the review would confirm that the department and the F.B.I. had acted properly.“Any objective review of these claims should tell us what we already know — that the F.B.I. was right  that there was sufficient evidence to continue investigating certain Trump campaign officials for their connections to the Russian government  and that the Republicans are desperate to distract from that investigation ” said Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York  the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.Mr. Horowitz’s office is in the final stages of another high-profile investigation studying several contentious decisions made at the F.B.I. and Justice Department during the 2016 presidential campaign. Findings from one piece of that investigation prompted the firing this month of the former F.B.I. deputy director  Andrew G. McCabe. Mr. Horowitz is expected to release a broader report on his entire review in the coming weeks.The decision punctuated a year of attacks by Mr. Trump on the Justice Department and the special counsel investigation. Mr. McCabe  who as a former top F.B.I. official is a potential witness in the inquiry  insisted he was fired in an effort to discredit any testimony he might give.The debate over the surveillance of Mr. Page exploded into public view in January when Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee revealed that they had assembled a classified memo accusing law enforcement leaders of abusing their power to spy on Mr. Page.AdvertisementThe document’s chief claim was that the officials repeatedly used unsubstantiated Democratic-funded opposition research from Mr. Steele to obtain the surveillance warrant without adequately explaining to the judge the source of the information.Mr. Trump declassified the memo over the objections of the F.B.I.  which said it had “grave concerns” over its accuracy  a rare public break from the White House. Once it was released  Mr. Trump enthusiastically trumpeted it as evidence that the Russia investigation had been concocted to smear him politically.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Democrats on the committee countered with a memo of their own — one the president declined to declassify — offering a point-by-point refutation of the Republican document and blasting it as an intentionally misleading attempt to undermine the Russia investigation. They said law enforcement officials acted properly in seeking permission to spy on Mr. Page.Former career prosecutors said that the accusations of surveillance abuse had eroded trust in the Justice Department.“This is a continuation of a coordinated effort to discredit the special counsel’s work through political attacks on career public servants in the F.B.I. ” said Christopher Hunter  a former F.B.I. agent and federal prosecutor who left the Justice Department last year. “Sow disinformation  discredit the F.B.I. and the Justice Department in the minds of our own American citizens  all to undermine the special counsel and create an environment of confusion and doubt about the legitimacy of the special counsel’s work — that’s what Russian intelligence would do to destabilize our society  yet that’s what’s being done by our own government officials and their collaborators.”Mr. Sessions has tried to strike a balance between appeasing Mr. Trump and other conservatives assailing the Justice Department without alienating the 113 000 or so people who work under him. After the Republican congressional memo was released  he said that “no department is perfect” and that the Justice Department would address lawmakers’ concerns.But House Republicans grew frustrated with how the department was handling their concerns over a variety of issues including the surveillance of Mr. Page  the firing of Mr. McCabe and the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state.In a letter last week to the deputy attorney general  Mr. Goodlatte said that the department was moving too slowly and he issued a subpoena last week demanding that officials turn over documents related to those issues.The Justice Department said in a letter sent Tuesday to Mr. Goodlatte that it would work “to enhance the rate of productions ” and that it would schedule a meeting with the committee and the F.B.I. to discuss how the department would further respond to the request.AdvertisementChristopher A. Wray  the director of the F.B.I.  said in a news release that he had doubled the number of employees assigned to expedite the request for documents  with a total of 54 people working in shifts from 8 a.m. to midnight.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Inspector General Says He Will Investigate Surveillance of Trump Campaign Aide.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy EILEEN SULLIVANMARCH 28  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that the Second Amendment — the right to keep and bear arms — “will never be repealed ” responding to an opinion piece written by a retired Supreme Court justice who called for just that.
            THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED! As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!        Mr. Trump’s declaration in an early morning tweet came after days of silence on the subject  despite student-organized  marches around the country over the weekend calling for more gun control.On Tuesday  the retired Justice John Paul Stevens wrote an Op-Ed  in The New York Times calling for the repeal of the Second Amendment.“Rarely in my lifetime have I seen the type of civic engagement schoolchildren and their supporters demonstrated in Washington and other major cities throughout the country this past Saturday ” Mr. Stevens wrote. “These demonstrations demand our respect. They reveal the broad public support for legislation to minimize the risk of mass killings of schoolchildren and others in our society.”AdvertisementRepealing the Second Amendment would have to be approved by Congress  and there are no signs that such a move is underway.Advertisement“It is unequivocally not the Democratic caucus’ position to repeal the Second Amendment ” Senator Chuck Schumer  the top Democrat in the Senate  said in a statement to The New York Times on Wednesday. “The president has to tweet this because he and the Republicans are reeling.”Mr. Schumer  of New York  said the student marches are having an impact on the traditional argument about gun safety. The choice  he said  is not between gun rights and no gun rights.“Reasonable proposals that adhere to the Second Amendment but improve gun safety such as universal background checks  protective orders and a debate on the assault weapons ban are the way of the future ” Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Stevens retired from the Supreme Court in 2010. He wrote a major dissent about the Second Amendment in one of the court’s hardest-fought decisions. Mr. Stevens argued that the amendment does not protect an individual’s right to own firearms.“That decision — which I remain convinced was wrong and certainly was debatable — has provided the N.R.A. with a propaganda weapon of immense power ” Mr. Stevens wrote on Tuesday  referring to the National Rifle Association  the powerful gun lobbying group. “Overturning that decision via a constitutional amendment to get rid of the Second Amendment would be simple and would do more to weaken the N.R.A.’s ability to stymie legislative debate and block constructive gun control legislation than any other available option.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Sarah Huckabee Sanders  the White House press secretary  indicated the administration was not considering a repeal of the Second Amendment.“The president and the administration still fully support the Second Amendment ” Ms. Sanders said on Tuesday in response to a question about Mr. Stevens’s Op-Ed. “We think that the focus has to remain on removing weapons from dangerous individuals  not on blocking all Americans from their constitutional rights.”In his tweet  Mr. Trump also said that Democrats support repealing the Second Amendment  but that has not been the case in Congress  which is only considering modest policy changes on guns. In the 1990s  a Democratic congressman from New York introduced legislation for a repeal  but it did not get any traction. Mr. Trump’s opponent in the 2016 election  Hillary Clinton  did not campaign to repeal the Second Amendment.Advertisement“We can uphold Second Amendment rights while preventing senseless gun violence ” Mrs. Clinton tweeted in May 2016.Mr. Trump had the support of the N.R.A. early in his campaign for president and has said he is “the biggest fan of the Second Amendment.” After the deadly mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland  Fla.  last month  Mr. Trump proposed stricter controls on access to guns  particularly raising the age to purchase an assault weapon to 21 from 18. After a meeting with the N.R.A.  Mr. Trump no longer advocated for an age increase.Instead  the White House — with the support of the N.R.A. — says appropriately trained teachers should be armed to respond to future mass shootings.“Gun free zones are proven targets of killers ” Mr. Trump tweeted on March 1.
            Many ideas  some good & some not so good  emerged from our bipartisan meeting on school safety yesterday at the White House. Background Checks a big part of conversation. Gun free zones are proven targets of killers. After many years  a Bill should emerge. Respect 2nd Amendment!        Arming teachers has been widely criticized  recently by people who gathered for marches for more gun control.At a March for Our Lives demonstration in Anchorage  Alaska  on Saturday  Melanie Anderson  a 44-year-old middle schoolteacher  held up a sign that said “teacher  not sharp shooter.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Kirsten HanSINGAPORE — Days before winning the election in 2016  Donald Trump stood on a stage and directed an accusation at a tiny country halfway across the world: Singapore  he said  was stealing American jobs.Singapore is now on the tip of Mr. Trump’s tongue again — but this time  he’s expressing admiration for its death penalty for drug trafficking. He has reportedly invited government representatives to brief the White House on their approach to drug trafficking  including their use of capital punishment. Mr. Trump seems to believe he can learn a thing or two from Singapore.This is convenient for the Singapore government  which has been using the global opioid crisis as an argument for the retention of capital punishment. While the American media reported Mr. Trump’s praise for Singapore’s “zero tolerance” stance  the country hanged a 39-year-old Ghanaian named Billy Agbozo on March 9  and a 56-year-old Singaporean  Hishamrudin bin Mohd  on March 16. Both had been convicted of drug trafficking. These are the first two executions of 2018  as far as we know; information about imminent executions is not made available  and the prison service announces the number of hangings only in its annual report.But the borrowing of ideas hasn’t been a one-way street: the government here has taken a page out of Mr. Trump’s book. The new Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods is holding public hearings to explore measures for tackling “fake news.” The committee is meant to examine a range of options  but there are strong hints that new restrictions on the media are on the way  not least because the law minister  who is also a member of the committee  has already said that legislation is a “no-brainer.”Mr. Trump constantly proclaims that his “America First” policy will prevent the United States from being taken for a ride by other countries  while Singapore denounces foreign interference in its domestic politics. Yet when the occasion suits  both are more than happy to borrow ideas from elsewhere to control their populations. Such opportunism is the hallmark of authoritarians constantly on the lookout for ways to consolidate or expand their power.Both governments claim they’re solving urgent problems: to get the opioid crisis in the United States under control  to pre-empt disinformation campaigns that might threaten Singapore’s stability. But neither proposed solution is likely to solve the problem  and might even make things worse.Researchers have pointed to a lack of reliable data on drug use in Singapore to back up the government’s claims about the death penalty’s deterrent effect. The numbers offered by the state cannot be independently verified or may not present the whole picture. For instance  Ashok Kumar Mirpuri  Singapore’s ambassador to the United States   declared in a letter to the editor published in The Washington Post this month that Singapore had halved the number of drug abusers arrested between the 1990s and 2016 — a state of affairs supposedly brought about by the country’s willingness to impose death sentences.Yet the government’s own data shows that the number of drug abusers in Singapore increased from 2003 to 2017. The rate of drug use in any society is a complex issue with many variables; without more robust data and independent research  claims of the death penalty’s effectiveness in Singapore are unverifiable.The Singapore government has pointed to the United States  among others  as a target of disinformation campaigns  arguing that measures have to be taken to pre-empt attempts that exploit social fault lines to sow divisions within society. But Singapore already has laws that include the criminalizing of the transmission of messages known to be false  speech with the tendency to “promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population ” even the uttering of words with the “deliberate intention of wounding” religious or racial feelings  on top of other regulations that give the government control over the mainstream media and the power to take down content.The government hasn’t been afraid of using these powers  either: Web publishers have been jailed for sedition and their websites ordered to be shut down  while bloggers have been sued for defamation or found to be in contempt of court. One teenage blogger  Amos Yee  was granted asylum in the United States after an American immigration panel found that his two prosecutions for wounding religious feelings in Singapore amounted to political persecution.Although government ministers claim that measures against “fake news” will not affect free speech  Singaporean activists have seen how broadly worded legislation can  and has  been used to curb dissent. As I write this  an activist is facing a charge of vandalism (among others) simply for pasting two sheets of paper on a subway car during a silent protest. Apart from vague reassurances  there is no guarantee that any new law will not be used to restrict speech and clamp down on civil society.Both Mr. Trump and the Singapore government have little time for human rights  civil liberties or even openness and accountability when there’s something they want to achieve. For Mr. Trump  the death penalty fits his favored straight-talking  tough-guy image. For Singapore  spinning “fake news” into a national security issue is a great opportunity to expand state control of the online space  where political discourse is freer than anywhere else in the country.It’s precisely this opportunism that requires civil society groups around the world to look outward even as governments look in. We need to build links so we learn from one another’s experiences. As politicians seize chances to grab power  undermine human rights and erode democratic processes  problems that exist elsewhere can very quickly become our problem too.Kirsten Han is a journalist and advocate for the abolition of capital punishment in Singapore.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ALAN RAPPEPORTMARCH 27  2018
Update: The United States and South Korea formally announced the trade agreement in a joint statement on Wednesday  and said that it “represents important progress in improving U.S.-Korea trade and economic relations.”WASHINGTON — President Trump scored his first significant trade deal this week  securing a pact with South Korea that represents the type of one-on-one agreement that Mr. Trump says makes the best sense for American companies and workers.The deal  which is expected to be formally announced on Wednesday  opens the South’s market to American autos by lifting existing limits on manufacturers like Ford Motor and General Motors  extends tariffs for South Korean truck exports and restricts  by nearly a third  the amount of steel that the South can export to the United States. Mr. Trump used his threat of stiff steel and aluminum tariffs as a cudgel to extract the concessions he wanted  helping produce an agreement that had stalled amid disagreements this year.But winning the deal may have had more to do with the geopolitical realities confronting the United States and South Korea as America embarks on tricky nuclear discussions with North Korea. The United States cannot afford a protracted trade standoff at a moment when it needs the South as an ally.AdvertisementThe trade deal came as the Chinese state news media reported that North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  made an unannounced visit to Beijing to meet with President Xi Jinping weeks before planned summit meetings with American and South Korean leaders.AdvertisementThe political success of the trade agreement — and its ability to be replicated in other negotiations — is not guaranteed. Many countries have reacted coolly to Washington’s pugilistic approach to trade  viewing the president’s preference to punch first and negotiate later as counter to global interests.President Emmanuel Macron of France lashed out at the approach on Tuesday  saying he was frustrated by the seemingly coercive negotiation tactics coming from Washington.“We talk about everything  in principle  with a friendly country that respects the rules of the W.T.O. ” Mr. Macron said. “We talk about nothing  in principle  when it is with a gun to our head.”The implications in the United States will depend on how well Mr. Trump and his allies are able to sell the deal’s direct benefits to voters in midterm elections in the fall. They did not succeed in doing so in a recent special election in Pennsylvania  where a Democrat won in a district that should have been especially receptive to Mr. Trump’s argument about trade and tariffs.Stephen K. Bannon  Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist  said the president’s political team “must get on the ground and make sure working people understand the direct economic benefits that come from these measures — get it from being academic to simple.”The deal with South Korea  he said  “is a big victory resulting from the president’s smart tariff policies.”The state news media in China and North Korea confirmed that Kim Jong-un  the North Korean leader  was in the mysterious train that pulled into Beijing on Monday. It was his first official visit abroad since he took office.The agreement is also a victory for a president whose most ardent campaign supporters were animated in part by a promise that Mr. Trump would fight for them against an international free-trade establishment that they believe had robbed them of jobs and depressed their wages.AdvertisementAs a candidate  Mr. Trump had repeatedly threatened to withdraw from trade deals he said were unfair to the United States and its workers — or even rip them up. Even as recently as last September  associates of the president made it clear that he was willing to withdraw from trade negotiations with South Korea if he thought the result would be unfair.Mr. Trump has also made clear his disdain for the multicountry trade agreements that the United States has long championed. One of his first moves as president was to pull out of what was then the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership  an agreement that President Barack Obama had helped solidify.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On Tuesday  supporters of Mr. Trump’s protectionist approach to trade cheered the new pact as a victory for American workers and the dawn of a new era in globalization.“The agreement with South Korea to better level the playing field on steel and autos is an encouraging sign that the administration’s trade strategy is achieving results ” said Scott N. Paul  the president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “We believe the deal’s steel provision will be as effective as a tariff in achieving the goals of strengthening our domestic industry and ensuring it can supply America’s security needs.”Through the agreement  South Korea — the third-biggest exporter of steel to the United States in 2016 — is permanently exempt from the White House’s global tariffs of 25 percent on steel. In return  South Korea agreed to adhere to a quota of 2.68 million tons of steel exports to the United States a year  which it said was roughly equivalent to 70 percent of its annual average sent to the United States from 2015 to 2017.The deal also doubles the number of vehicles the United States can export to South Korea without meeting local safety requirements to 50 000 per manufacturer. However  trade experts said that American companies had not come close to meeting their existing quota last year  and that American carmakers had not done enough to tailor their products for South Korean consumers  who prefer smaller vehicles. The revised agreement does ease environmental regulations that American carmakers face when selling vehicles in South Korea and makes American standards for auto parts compliant with South Korean regulations.Importantly for the Trump administration  the agreement extends tariffs on imported South Korean trucks by 20 years to 2041. Those tariffs were set to phase out in 2021  which officials said would have harmed American truck makers.The deal will also establish a side agreement between the United States and South Korea that is intended to deter “competitive devaluation” of both countries’ currencies — which can artificially lower the cost of imports bought by consumers — and to create more transparency on issues of monetary policy. Administration officials suggested that this new type of arrangement was likely to be replicated in other trade deals  though they acknowledged that it was not enforceable.Senior White House officials trumpeted the addition of the currency provision to the negotiations  which would seek to prevent South Korea from reducing the value of its currency to make its goods cheaper abroad and export more to the United States. In a report published in October  the Treasury Department declined to label South Korea a currency manipulator  but placed it on a “monitoring list” for its currency practices and large trade surplus with the United States.AdvertisementHowever  the effect of the currency agreement may be mostly symbolic  since it was signed in a side deal to the pact to avoid a lengthy legislative approval process. Unlike other provisions of the official agreement  the currency provision is not enforceable through panels that typically settle disputes  or through officially sanctioned retaliation  the usual method for policing trade deals.The Obama administration had fought for a similar currency provision to be included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership.On automobiles  the biggest source of trade tensions between the countries  the negotiation delivered modest victories that were likely to be welcomed by American carmakers who have long sought to sell more cars in South Korea. It also smoothed customs and regulatory procedures that American businesses say have made it harder to sell goods in the country.Ana Swanson contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Backers See Trade Deal As a Validation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KEITH BRADSHERMARCH 28  2018
Trade pacts typically require years of detailed negotiations. The North American Free Trade Agreement needed two years. Creation of the World Trade Organization took eight.The Trump administration wants to remake global trade in a matter of months.To secure agreements quickly  the White House has taken a contentious approach to negotiations not seen in decades  threatening allies and adversaries alike with harsh sanctions like tariffs and quotas. Those tactics have returned a few early concessions from trading partners  including South Korea  whose revised trade agreement was formally announced by the United States on Wednesday.But it remains to be seen how much American workers would benefit from these deals and whether the global trading system can sustain the chaos.President Trump and his chief trade negotiator  Robert Lighthizer  have set a series of crucial deadlines that are rapidly approaching. Temporary exemptions on imports of steel and aluminum from Australia  Brazil  Canada  the European Union  Mexico and South Korea have been scheduled to expire on May 1  and the Trump administration has been using that deadline as a cudgel to extract concessions from those nations.AdvertisementMr. Trump is demanding that Canada and Mexico  which have been locked in tense  monthslong negotiations with the United States over Nafta  agree to a rewrite of the trade pact in a matter of weeks. He is seeking Europe’s support by then in a trade showdown with China  and has publicly questioned whether the United States will continue to accept a deal made long ago that allows the European Union to charge a tariff on imported cars that is four times as high as the United States’ tariff.AdvertisementIn what might be the most difficult trade fight ahead  the Trump administration is taking steps to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion a year worth of goods from China as soon as late April.The banana wars were spats that escalated  tariff by tariff  into a decades-long dispute between the United States and the European Union.Behind the rapid pace is a political promise Mr. Trump made both as a candidate and as president that he would rip up global trade deals that did not work for the United States and rewrite them to favor domestic companies and workers. With the 2018 midterm elections fast approaching and many Republicans in vulnerable positions  Mr. Trump is trying to win agreements that will appeal to his base and help keep Republican control of Congress.If Mr. Trump’s push works  it could hasten the biggest rewrite of trade rules around the world since 118 nations agreed in Geneva in 1993 to create the World Trade Organization.But the rush carries significant risks. Hasty deals could do little to solve major  long-running problems for the United States  like China’s financial support for its homegrown companies. New tariffs could also prompt the United States’ biggest trading partners to push back and ignite a trade war or a serious geopolitical confrontation. And it could simply prompt some nations to pull back from the United States  rather than accede to demands that may be unpalatable back home.“You get this thing rolling and it gets hard to stop ” said Nelson G. Dong  an international investment and technology lawyer in the Seattle office of Dorsey & Whitney  a law firm. “Each side gets its manhood challenged.”There are legal risks as well. Trade pacts are usually inspected minutely by lawyers on both sides before they are signed. The United States is trying to conclude a rapid-fire series of them at a moment when the office of the United States trade representative is short-staffed for budgetary reasons. Many governments plan to challenge Mr. Trump’s trade actions at the World Trade Organization including Canada  which has already filed a sweeping trade case.For now  Mr. Trump’s highly ambitious agenda lacks even a clear schedule for trade ministers to meet and sort out the details. The approach has irritated trade ministers in Canada  China  the European Union and Mexico  who have made clear that they would prefer the United States address its chronic trade deficits in a quieter and more collegial manner.AdvertisementIn the case of South Korea  the high-pressure tactic returned results — though it is not yet clear how much Seoul’s concessions will help American workers.Under the deal announced on Wednesday  South Korea will reduce its steel exports to the United States by nearly one-third to avoid getting hit with new American steel tariffs. South Korea also agreed to double  to 50 000  the number of American cars that it will allow to be imported each year into the country without meeting South Korea’s unique safety standards  which have been criticized for decades by American and European officials as a trade barrier.South Korean demand for American cars appears to be growing  but the new rules may not provide an immediate increase for Detroit. According to the Korea Automobile Importers and Distributors Association  the number of cars imported from the United States remains below the 25 000 cap  reaching 20 019 last year.Still  the South Korea examples offers a look at what Mr. Trump may be seeking by pressuring trading partners for quick deals. Mr. Trump strongly hinted last week that his goal in confronting trading partners was a negotiated settlement  as opposed collecting billions of dollars from new tariffs.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“I believe that  in many cases — maybe all cases — we’ll end up negotiating a deal ” he said.It is not clear how well that approach will work with China  a much bigger and more pugnacious trading partner. Chinese officials have repeatedly said that they object to threats but do see room to reduce the country’s trade barriers. Premier Li Keqiang said in a speech this month that China was ready to lower tariffs on imported cars and some other items.“We will make more efforts on market opening  promote industrial updating and the development of balanced trade  and provide more choices for consumers ” he said.Comments like that have some analysts predicting that a deal will be reached. “The most likely outcome is that China will concede ” said Larry Hu  an economist in the Hong Kong office of Macquarie Securities.But significant risks remain of a possible trade war by the end of next month.“Nafta could get some result by that date and the European Union might have a deal by then  but in the case of China  this will be more difficult ” said He Weiwen  a former Chinese Commerce Ministry official and longtime trade expert. “The Chinese are very mad.”AdvertisementAlready some in the Trump administration are spoiling for a fight over the W.T.O.  which arbitrates international trade disputes.Mr. Lighthizer and many other Democratic and Republican trade experts have repeatedly complained that the W.T.O.’s process for reviewing and solving trade disputes has put the United States and Western countries at a disadvantage.Critics in the United States complain that the W.T.O. allows China to keep steep trade barriers: triple the average tariffs of the United States and double the average tariffs of the European Union. China’s retort is that the West agreed to the tariffs in the 1990s  and that a deal is a deal  not to be changed unless the West offers further concessions.Pascal Lamy  the former director general of the W.T.O.  said that what the United States accomplishes could depend to a considerable extent on whether it seeks a broad opening up of international trade  including a requirement that China remove many trade barriers  or whether the United States ends up protecting its own market.“If the United States carpet bombing on trade is about opening a negotiation  which is one of the interpretations  then I think there is ample room to improve the rules of the W.T.O. ” he said.But he added that if American officials “are after blowing up the multilateral system  then it is a very serious issue.”Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers  Sui-Lee Wee  Chris Buckley and Ana Swanson.A version of this article appears in print on March 29  2018  on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Armed With Tariffs  Trump Rushes to Remake Trade Deals That Took Years to Write.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  12:42 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that the Second Amendment "WILL NEVER BE REPEALED" and called on voters to elect more Republicans in this fall's congressional elections because the GOP "must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court."Trump's statements came a day after retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens wrote in an essay in The New York Times that repealing the amendment would make it easier for Congress to enact gun control legislation.Last month's shootings that killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland  Florida  have galvanized young people  liberals and Democrats for a renewed push to curb firearms. That has included demonstrations that have drawn hundreds of thousands of marchers in cities across the country."THE SECOND AMENDMENT WILL NEVER BE REPEALED!" Trump tweeted early Wednesday. "As much as Democrats would like to see this happen  and despite the words yesterday of former Supreme Court Justice Stevens  NO WAY. We need more Republicans in 2018 and must ALWAYS hold the Supreme Court!"AdvertisementAs with many issues  Trump's stated position on guns has been inconsistent. In a televised meeting after the Parkland massacre with shooting survivors  lawmakers and others  he suggested letting authorities confiscate guns from people considered dangerous even without court permission and expanding required background checks to also cover private gun sales. He's since abandoned those views.AdvertisementThere is no current  major push to repeal the Second Amendment. Any effort to do so would be unlikely to succeed in today's divisive political climate. Under the most common way to amend the Constitution  the House and Senate would both need to approve the proposal by two-thirds majorities. It would then need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Political parties do not technically "hold" the Supreme Court like they control Congress.Justices are nominated by presidents and must be confirmed by the Senate. It is true justices often reflect the political views of presidents who select them  but that is not always the case.Of the current nine justices  the four considered to comprise the court's conservative wing were appointed by GOP presidents and the four more liberal judges were selected by Democratic presidents. The ninth  often considered the crucial swing vote  is Anthony Kennedy  who was nominated by Republican President Ronald Reagan.Trump would have an easier time filling the next Supreme Court vacancy if Republicans can expand their current 51-49 Senate majority in November's elections.The Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that the Second Amendment lets people own guns for self-defense.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  10:42 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  One of President Donald Trump's attorneys floated the possibility of pardoning two of the president's former advisers caught up in the Russia probe in discussions with their lawyers last year  The New York Times reported Wednesday.The newspaper  citing three anonymous people with knowledge of the discussions  said then-Trump attorney  John Dowd  raised the idea with attorneys for former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.Dowd  who recently resigned from Trump's legal team  denied having the conversations in an interview with the Times  saying  "There were no discussions. Period." He did not respond to request for comment from The Associated Press.According to the Times  the discussion with Flynn's attorney  Robert Kelner  took place last summer  months before Flynn took a plea deal and began cooperating with special counsel Robert Mueller. The conversation with Reginald Brown  who represented Manafort at the time  took place ahead of Manafort's indictment last October on charges of acting as an unregistered foreign agent and conspiring to launder money.AdvertisementReached Wednesday  Brown and Kelner declined to comment. The report provoked strong denials from the White House and Trump's attorneys.AdvertisementIn a statement  attorney Ty Cobb  who represents the White House  said there have been no pardons discussed related to the Russia investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters."I have only been asked about pardons by the press and have routinely responded on the record that no pardons are under discussion or under consideration at the White House " he said.Trump personal attorney Jay Sekulow also said  "Never during the course of my representation of the president have I had any discussions of pardons of any individual involved in this inquiry."White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said she wasn't aware of any discussions in which Trump directed Dowd to broach the subject of pardoning people involved in the special counsel's investigation. But Sanders said she hadn't asked the president specifically.The AP earlier reported that Trump mused to aides last summer about pardons and asked for information about the extent of his constitutional powers according two individuals familiar with the discussions. The people spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversations were confidential.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller and Chad Day contributed to this report.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  4:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  A federal judge Wednesday allowed Maryland and the District of Columbia to proceed with their lawsuit accusing President Donald Trump of accepting unconstitutional gifts from foreign interests  but limited the case to the president's involvement with the Trump International Hotel in Washington.U.S. District Judge Peter J. Messitte's ruling dismissed other sections of the lawsuit that raised concerns about the impact of foreign gifts to the president from Trump Organization properties outside of Washington.Maryland and D.C. accuse the president of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution  which bans the president and other federal officials from accepting gifts from foreign governments as well as U.S. states. Specifically  they allege nearby businesses have been subjected to increased competition as a result of the foreign traffic to the Trump Hotel."Their allegation is bolstered by explicit statements from certain foreign government officials indicating that they are clearly choosing to stay at the president's hotel because  as one representative of a foreign government has stated  they want him to know 'I love your new hotel '" Messitte wrote in his 47-page ruling.AdvertisementBut the judge also warned the plaintiffs that their "claims sweep too broadly " saying "it is a considerable stretch  however  to find the requisite injury-in-fact" to Maryland and D.C. from Trump properties outside of Washington.AdvertisementDespite Messitte's limited ruling  a watchdog group that has joined the two jurisdictions in the lawsuit was quick to hail the judge's decision."This is a major step forward for the emoluments litigation " said Norman Eisen  a former chief ethics lawyer for the Obama administration and chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington  also called CREW. Eisen said the decision suggests that states and businesses near Trump enterprises in other parts of the country may also have legal standing to sue.Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said "we won the first round. It's a very clear decision that Donald Trump is not above the law and has to be held accountable to the emoluments clause."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine  tweeted: "We have standing to hold Pres. Trump accountable for violating the Constitution."It was not immediately clear whether the Trump administration would appeal the ruling.White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to address the issue during an afternoon press briefing  saying "I can't comment on pending litigation."Kerri Kupec  a Justice Department spokeswoman  said "we believe this case should be dismissed  and we will continue to defend the president in court."Although the Trump Organization was not a party in the litigation  the company said it was pleased that the judge did not allow the lawsuit to target other Trump properties."The court's decision today does significantly narrow the scope of the case " said a company spokeswoman. The court has yet to rule on several additional arguments  which we believe should result in a complete dismissal."If the judge's ruling holds  it could allow Maryland and DC to press for documents showing how foreign government interests or U.S. states used the Trump hotel and how much money they spent there.AdvertisementLate last year  a judge in New York threw out a similar lawsuit filed by CREW  ruling that the emoluments clause is an issue that Congress should address first. A third federal lawsuit has been filed against Trump on the issue by nearly 200 Democratic members of Congress.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 28  2018  4:03 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's family hotel business has lost a bid to regain control of the luxury hotel in Panama that ousted his brand  according to a new emergency arbitration ruling.The arbitrator ruled Tuesday that Trump's company should not have been evicted while a broader arbitration dispute was ongoing between the hotel owners and Trump. But with Trump outmaneuvered in Panama and the hotel in the owners' hands  the arbitrator declined to reinstate the Trump team. He also barred all parties from starting new legal fights over the matter."The facts on the ground now militate against forcibly undoing the steps that have been taken " arbitrator Joel Richler wrote. He said his decision might be different if Trump had sought an emergency arbitration decision before the hotel owners successfully petitioned the Panamanian courts for help.Alan Garten  the Trump Organization's general counsel  declined to comment on the ruling. But in past statements to The Associated Press  he has said that the Trump Organization expects the arbitration process will ultimately find that Trump Hotels' firing and subsequent removal from the property without an arbitrator's approval violated Trump's contract.AdvertisementTuesday's decision dashes the Trump Organization's hopes of promptly reversing its high-profile eviction from the property  a 70-story luxury high rise on Panama City's waterfront now named The Bahia Grand Panama. The owners of the property — which was run by Trump under a management agreement — sought to fire his company last October  citing damage to Trump's brand and mismanagement by hotel officials. But the Trump Organization disputed its termination as illegitimate and refused to hand over the property.AdvertisementThe fight — initially waged in confidential arbitration — burst into the public eye in February when Orestes Fintiklis  the hotel's majority owner  sought to fire Trump's hotel management and take control of the property on behalf of the owners' association. Trump's family company responded by beefing up its security team and blockading doors — sometimes by building walls in the administrative office's hallways. Rival teams of hotel security guards skirmished on the property  and police were repeatedly called in to keep the peace.The standoff ended March 5  when Panamanian judicial officials sided with Fintiklis and a justice of the peace backed by police officers ordered the Trump management team to vacate the property. A workman immediately scrubbed Trump's name from the hotel  using a crowbar to pry "TRUMP" off the hotel's signage amid a scrum of news cameras.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Richler's ruling stated that  under the contract between the hotel owners and the Trump Organization  the dispute over Trump's firing should have remained in arbitration and never have been brought to Panama's courts.Trump's lawyers made an argument  the arbitrator ruled  that the hotel owners breached Trump's hotel management contract by seeking outside help from local courts.But because the arbitator's finding applies only to his own decision and he chose not to turn over control of the hotel back to Trump  it is unclear whether his decision has any significance.The arbitrator ordered both sides to split the $40 000 cost of the emergency arbitration evenly and ordered both the hotel owners and Trump to refrain from bringing new challenges against each other until the arbitration is sorted out."The parties to the arbitration agreement are enjoined from making any emergency applications concerning the management of the hotel in any forum other than the ICC or the courts of New York " he wrote — jurisdictions in which the matter has already been contested  including the International Chamber of Commerce.The parties are still fighting over who broke the hotel management contract and who should pay whom. A $3 million arbitration claim filed by Trump's business against the hotel and a cumulative $25 million in claims against Trump in arbitration and Panamanian court remain outstanding.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »