AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN  MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MARK LANDLERMARCH 25  2018
President Trump has decided not to hire two lawyers who were announced last week as new additions to his legal team  leaving him with a shrinking stable of lawyers as the investigation by the special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  enters an intense phase.“The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the president’s special counsel legal team ” Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer  Jay Sekulow  said in a statement on Sunday morning. “However  those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.”The upheaval on the legal team comes at a critical time for Mr. Trump. The president’s former lead lawyer  John Dowd  quit the team on Thursday  just as Mr. Trump is deciding whether to sit with Mr. Mueller for an interview. At the moment  Mr. Sekulow is the president’s chief outside lawyer  as Mr. Trump’s longtime New York lawyer  Marc E. Kasowitz  remains on the periphery.While Mr. Trump’s lawyers  including Mr. Dowd  had told the president that the investigation would be over by this point  it seems to be accelerating  as Mr. Mueller appears to be looking into a wide range of matters related to Mr. Trump’s corporate activities  his 2016 campaign  his associates and his time in office.AdvertisementThe president met with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing  who are married  in recent days to discuss the possibility that they would join his legal team in the Mueller case. According to two people told of details about the meeting  the president did not believe he had personal chemistry with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.AdvertisementBut beyond that  Ms. Toensing is representing Mark Corallo  who was the spokesman for Mr. Trump’s legal team in 2017 before they parted ways.Mr. Corallo has told investigators that he was concerned that a close aide to Mr. Trump  Hope Hicks  may have been planning to obstruct justice during the drafting of a statement about a meeting between a Russian lawyer and Donald Trump Jr. during the campaign.Ms. Hicks’s lawyer has strongly denied that suggestion  and White House aides said Mr. Corallo’s assertion had come up in discussions with the president as he weighed whether to go ahead with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.Mr. diGenova had been expected to serve as an outspoken voice for the president as Mr. Trump has increased his attacks on Mr. Mueller. Mr. diGenova has endorsed the notion that a secretive group of F.B.I. agents concocted the Russia investigation as a way to keep Mr. Trump from becoming president  a theory with little supporting evidence.“There was a brazen plot to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and  if she didn’t win the election  to then frame Donald Trump with a falsely created crime ” he had told Fox News in January.Earlier on Sunday  Mr. Trump took to Twitter from his Florida resort to insist that he faced no problems finding lawyers to represent him in the Russia investigation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Fame & fortune will never be turned down by a lawyer  though some are conflicted ” Mr. Trump said in a tweet.The president insisted that “many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case ” and that reports of flux on his team were a “Fake News narrative.” Adding new lawyers  he said  would be costly because they would take months “to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more).”Advertisement“I am very happy with my existing team ” he added.The news about the canceled legal appointments came as White House officials were girding themselves for an interview on Sunday evening on the CBS program “60 Minutes” with the porn star known as Stormy Daniels.Ms. Daniels claims to have had a sexual relationship with Mr. Trump  and she signed a nondisclosure agreement with one of his lawyers  Michael D. Cohen  during the 2016 campaign.Mr. Trump and his wife  Melania  will be far apart by the time the interview airs. The White House announced that the first lady would stay behind in Florida when the president returned to Washington on Sunday afternoon. A spokeswoman  Lindsay Walters  said it was “their tradition for spring break.”On Sunday  one of Mr. Trump’s closest friends  Christopher Ruddy  said the president was “perplexed” by reports of turmoil in his administration. Speaking on the ABC program “This Week ” Mr. Ruddy  who is the chief executive of Newsmax Media  said he expected the chief of staff  John F. Kelly  to stay in his job  despite the president’s chafing at what he sees as the restrictions Mr. Kelly has placed on him.But Mr. Ruddy  citing sources other than the president  said he expected the secretary of veterans affairs  David Shulkin  to leave the cabinet soon. Dr. Shulkin’s departure has been widely expected. And Mr. Ruddy played down reports that Ben Carson  the secretary of housing and urban development  was in trouble  despite Mr. Trump’s private criticism of Mr. Carson to advisers after revelations of excessive spending on an office dining room set.Ashleigh F. Barry  a spokeswoman for Dr. Shulkin  said on Sunday that there were no personnel changes at the department to announce.“President Trump has made clear that he expects the department’s sole focus to be on providing quality care to America’s veterans  who have sacrificed to keep this country free and safe ” she said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Wendy R. ShermanJohn R. Bolton  President Trump’s new national security adviser  has never met a war he didn’t want.Mr. Bolton defends the 2003 invasion of Iraq and he advocates attacking North Korea  too. He believes that the United States should have bombed Iran years ago  rather than negotiating an international agreement to prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon.Since going into force in 2016  that deal has blocked Tehran’s path to a nuclear weapon and prevented a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. By every account  Iran is complying with the agreement  has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon and has subjected itself to rigorous monitoring and verification.And yet  Mr. Trump appears committed to killing it. Mr. Bolton’s appointment has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short. May 12 is the next deadline by which the president has to extend sanction waivers and certify Iran’s compliance to preserve the accord. If he doesn’t  the fallout will be profound.First and foremost  Iran most likely will move quickly  without any restraint  to enrich uranium  the fissile material needed for nuclear weapons. The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps  the leading edge of Iran’s nefarious actions  will declare that the West can never be trusted and will use the decision to undermine the less hard-line president  Hassan Rouhani.The destruction of the nuclear deal will also increase the Revolutionary Guards’ malign activities in the Middle East  making the challenge to Israel’s security and to America’s other allies even more difficult. These activities  in turn  will increase American calls for military action against Iran as the only viable option  since no Iranian will be able to enter new negotiations with the United States any time soon.The march to military conflict will be hard to stop  especially with Mr. Bolton leading the National Security Council.Beyond this horror show  the decision to destroy the Iran deal will also pound yet another nail into the coffin of the trans-Atlantic relationship. Mr. Trump has so far laid the task of “fixing” the deal at the feet of Britain  France and Germany  America’s European partners in the nuclear negotiations. He has demanded that they agree to new language on Iran’s ballistic missile development and inspections of Iranian military installations  and he has asked for a change in the timeline of the nuclear deal so that the restrictions on Iran will not expire. In essence  he has asked Europe for help changing the terms of the deal itself.The Europeans’ greatest objection is on the issue of the “sunset.” They believe  accurately  that Iran has committed to never obtaining a nuclear weapon  is complying with the terms of the deal  and there are mechanisms in the deal to both review and sanction if it becomes necessary. European diplomats rightly feel that Mr. Trump is demanding that they solve a political problem he created by campaigning against the deal.Mr. Trump’s nixing of the deal won’t do America much good with the rest of the world  either. Important allies and partners  like South Korea  Japan and India  greatly reduced their reliance on Iranian oil in service to the negotiations that produced the nuclear agreement. Sabotaging the deal will sour these relationships. Moreover  these countries will balk at economic sanctions on Iran that are reimposed in the absence of diplomacy. Mr. Trump may get some level of compliance thanks to the reach of American banking sanctions  but he will also spawn distrust and resentment  and push other countries closer to China as a more reliable financial partner.Killing the Iran deal will also be an early blow to the forthcoming nuclear negotiations with North Korea. Mr. Trump most likely believes that nixing the Iran accord will somehow show North Korea’s leader  Kim Jong-un  that he does not make “bad” deals. In reality  Mr. Kim will wonder if he can believe in any agreement offered by an American president.Finally  if the White House rips up the Iran deal  it will give the United States exactly what it needs least: international isolation. The deal was negotiated by the United States  Britain  France  Germany  Russia and China  coordinated by the European Union  and endorsed by a 15-to-0 vote in the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Trump will not isolate Iran by nixing the deal; he will isolate America and lead its partners and allies to consider China and Russia as more dependable  predictable partners  even absent Western values.Nothing about this decision will increase American security. It will be a leap into the unknown  with devastating consequences. Once lost  the hard-won trust and faith in America will not be easily regained. Mr. Bolton and Mr. Trump should not make this huge mistake.Wendy R. Sherman  a former under secretary of state for political affairs  was the United States’ lead negotiator for the Iran nuclear agreement. She is the author of the forthcoming “Not For the Faint of Heart: Lessons in Courage  Power and Persistence.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JIM RUTENBERGMARCH 25  2018
The pornographic film star Stephanie Clifford told “60 Minutes” that she struck a $130 000 deal for her silence about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump in the final days of the 2016 campaign because she was worried about her safety and that of her young daughter.That concern  she told “60 Minutes” in an interview broadcast on Sunday night  was based on a threat she received in 2011 from a man who approached her in Las Vegas. She said the threat came after she sold her story about Mr. Trump for $15 000 to Bauer Publishing  which finally published the interview in its magazine InTouch early this year. Bauer had initially decided not to run it after Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer  Michael Cohen  threatened to sue.“I was in a parking lot going to a fitness class with my infant daughter ” she told the “60 Minutes” correspondent and CNN host Anderson Cooper. “And a guy walked up on me and said to me  ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.’ And he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said  ‘That’s a beautiful little girl  it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ ”Ms. Clifford said she did not go to the police after the threat  but when  years later  a lawyer came to her with an offer brokered by Mr. Cohen in the final days of the presidential campaign  she took it because “I was concerned for my family and their safety.”Advertisement(ALSO READ: Our profile of Stormy Daniels  the president’s unlikely foe  “not someone to be underestimated.”)AdvertisementMs. Clifford’s interview — which made for the most anticipated episode of “60 Minutes” in recent memory — was something of a national event  one marked by viewing parties and “Dark and Stormy” cocktail specials at bars  a nod to her professional name  Stormy Daniels.And it was a quintessential moment of the Trump presidency — a tabloid-ready scandal and must-see television — that carried potential legal implications for Mr. Trump and his longtime lawyer and personal fixer  Michael Cohen. Until Sunday’s broadcast  Ms. Clifford had kept her public appearances to the strip club circuit — what she called her “Make America Horny Again” tour. But  in speaking with Mr. Cooper  she chose businesslike attire that was in keeping with the seriousness of the legal case she is making  that she had been silenced in a cover-up effort to protect the presidential prospects of Mr. Trump.Ms. Clifford is one of two women who have recently filed suit seeking to get out of agreements they said they entered during the last stretch of the 2016 campaign to give up the rights to their stories about what they have said were affairs with Mr. Trump. The other woman  a former Playmate named Karen McDougal  sold her rights to the company that owns The National Enquirer — which never published it — and spoke to Mr. Cooper on CNN on Thursday. Representatives for Mr. Trump have denied that he had an affair with either woman.Both cases present potentially consequential legal challenges for Mr. Trump  forming the basis of complaints that have been filed with the Federal Election Commission and the Justice Department saying that the payments constituted illegal campaign contributions.Ms. Clifford’s appearance on “60 Minutes” showed that the effort to keep her story from public view had failed spectacularly — just as statements from Mr. Cohen that he would seek millions of dollars in damages from her for violating a hush agreement had not kept her from appearing on what is often the highest-rated program in television news.Shortly after “60 Minutes” aired  a lawyer for Mr. Cohen  Brent H. Blakely  sent a cease-and-desist letter to Ms. Clifford’s new lawyer  Michael Avenatti. It accused him and Ms. Clifford of defaming Mr. Cohen in relation to the threat she says she received and demanding a public apology.“Mr. Cohen had absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with any such person or incident  and does not even believe that any such person exists  or that such incident ever occurred ” Mr. Blakely wrote. “You and your client’s false statements about Mr. Cohen accuse him of criminal conduct and constitute  among other things  libel per se and intentional infliction of emotional distress.”AdvertisementDuring the interview Mr. Cooper asked Ms. Clifford why she was taking the legally risky route of sitting for a nationally televised interview. “I was perfectly fine saying nothing at all  but I’m not O.K. with being made out to be a liar ” she said.Ms. Clifford had first threatened to speak out in February  after  she said  Mr. Cohen broke his part of the previously secret 2016 agreement by telling The New York Times that he had paid the $130 000 from his own pocket. He has denied Mr. Trump had an affair with Ms. Clifford.Accusations  payoffs and lawsuits: Here’s a guide to the latest White House scandal  which involves a porn star named Stormy Daniels.The White House was quiet ahead of the airing of Ms. Clifford’s interview  though an ally of Mr. Trump’s  the Newsmax founder and editor in chief  Christopher Ruddy  told ABC News earlier on Sunday that Mr. Trump considered her story “a political hoax.” Mr. Trump spent the evening before the interview dining at his club in Palm Beach  Mar-a-Lago  with Mr. Cohen.Ms. Clifford said during the interview that while she had seen Mr. Trump more than once  she had had sex with him a single time  unprotected. That happened shortly after they met at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe in 2006. (Ms. McDougal has also said that she  too  was intimate with Mr. Trump during that event.) Mr. Trump was 60 at the time; Ms. Clifford was 27.Ms. Clifford said that Mr. Trump had invited her to his hotel suite for dinner  and that their banter began with him showing her a magazine cover featuring his photograph. “I was like  ‘Someone should take that magazine and spank you with it ”’ she said. “So he turned around and pulled his pants down a little — you know  had underwear on and stuff  and I just gave him a couple swats.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.It was done in a joking manner  she said  and the flirtation — which included Mr. Trump comparing Ms. Clifford to his daughter — led to intercourse  though  she said  she had not been particularly attracted to Mr. Trump and had not wanted to have sex with him. (She said she nonetheless went along of her own accord.)“He said that it was great ” she said  and told her he had had “a great evening  and it was nothing like he expected  that I really surprised him  that a lot of people must underestimate me — that he hoped that I would be willing to see him again  and that we would discuss the things we had talked about earlier in the evening.”Mr. Trump  she said  had raised the possibility that he get her onto his reality show  “Celebrity Apprentice ” but it would not come to be.She said that he had invited her to his Beverly Hills Hotel bungalow in 2007 to fill her in on that promise. The entertainment for the night  she said  was a “Shark Week” documentary. Mr. Trump  she said  wanted to have sex but this time she did not go along with it  and when he did not have an answer for her about being on the show  she left. She said he told her over the phone a month later that he would not be able to get her onto the program and that was effectively the end of it.AdvertisementBut when her story threatened to surface again in 2016  Ms. Clifford said  her lawyer  Keith Davidson  called her. “I think I have the best deal for you ” she said Mr. Davidson told her  presenting Mr. Cohen’s offer. (Mr. Davidson had also represented Ms. McDougal.)When Mr. Cooper said some viewers would be skeptical that Ms. Clifford had made her decision because of a threat made years earlier  she said she “didn’t even negotiate” and “just quickly said ‘yes ’ to this very  you know  strict contract  and what most people will agree with me  extremely low number.” Ms. Clifford also said that she had “turned down a large payday multiple times.”Ms. Clifford said that she can remember the man’s face to this day and would recognize him immediately. Mr. Avenatti said earlier this month that she had been threatened  although he did not provide any details. At the time  the White House press secretary  Sarah Huckabee Sanders  said  “Obviously we take the safety and security of any person seriously  certainly would condemn anyone threatening any individual.”When the story about the payoff first broke earlier this year  Ms. Clifford had signed a statement emphatically denying that an affair had taken place. She told Mr. Cooper that she had been told that if she failed to sign it  “they can make your life hell in many different ways.” That sentiment  she indicated  was based on the terms of the agreement  not on any new threat of physical violence  though  she said  she felt both “intimidated” and “bullied.”Lawyers for Mr. Cohen have said that Ms. Clifford faces $20 million in penalties for violating an agreement to remain quiet and that the agreement was still binding.Ms. Clifford’s suit hinges on Mr. Avenatti’s argument that the agreement is invalid because Mr. Trump had not signed it. Mr. Cohen signed the agreement  representing the Delaware shell company Essential Consultants  through which he paid Ms. Clifford.Mr. Cohen has denied any involvement by the Trump Organization or the Trump campaign. But Mr. Avenatti  through his various media appearances  has been trying to build a case that Mr. Cohen was acting in his capacity as a lawyer at the Trump Organization when he worked on the agreement. He presented new evidence on “60 Minutes”: a FedEx envelope showing that Mr. Davidson had sent the contract to Mr. Cohen at his office at the Trump Organization  and addressed a cover letter to him in his official Trump Organization capacity.Mr. Cooper pressed Ms. Clifford on whether she was not coming forward to cash in on her affair now that Mr. Trump had become president. She did not apologize for the extra money she says she is already making as a dancer because of the surrounding publicity  but noted that she was also opening herself up to real financial risk.Asked what she would tell the president if he was watching  she said  “He knows I’m telling the truth.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Adult Film Star Feared for Safety Of Daughter After Trump Threat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  2:08 P.M. E.D.T.
JERUSALEM —  West Bank settlement construction surged during the first year of the Trump presidency  an Israeli monitoring group said Sunday  releasing data that added to Palestinian mistrust of the American administration.Peace Now said that Israel began construction of 2 783 settlement homes in 2017. That was about 17 percent higher than the annual average since Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took office in 2009.It said that 78 percent of the new homes were in outlying settlements that would likely have to be evacuated if a Palestinian state is established. And 234 units  or 8 percent  were in tiny outposts that are not even authorized by Israel  it said.The Palestinians and most of the international community consider Israeli settlements to be illegal and obstacles to peace. Over 600 000 settlers now live in the West Bank and east Jerusalem  areas captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast war and claimed by the Palestinians for their future state.AdvertisementWhile a string of Republican and Democratic presidents have opposed settlement construction  Trump has taken a softer line. He has asked Israel to show restraint at times  but avoided the strong condemnations voiced by his predecessors. His Mideast peace team  led by his son in law Jared Kushner  is dominated by people with close ties to the settlement movement.AdvertisementPeace Now said its data is collected through aerial surveys and inspections by monitors on the ground. In its report  Peace Now stopped short of blaming the jump in construction exclusively on White House policies.Netanyahu has been a strong supporter of the settlements throughout his career  and his coalition is dominated by religious and nationalist hardliners aligned with the settlement movement and who oppose Palestinian independence. Facing a growing list of corruption investigations  Netanyahu has also appealed to his hard-line base."The steady pace of construction and building deep in the West Bank attest to Prime Minister Netanyahu's steadfast abetting of the settlement enterprise " the report said. "It is also apparent that the new U.S. presidency in 2017 had no marginal deterrent effect on these Israeli unilateral moves."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The West Bank settler movement has issued its own data showing growth in their communities. Last month  a settler leader  using official government data  said the West Bank settler population grew 3.4 percent last year  nearly double the growth rate of Israel's overall population  to more than 435 000 people.For the Palestinians  the Peace Now data was another cause for mistrust of the U.S. administration just as the White House is trying to wrap up a Mideast peace initiative.The Palestinians have severed most contacts with the White House since Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December. The Palestinians view the move as being unfairly biased toward Israel on the most sensitive issue in the conflict  and have already rejected the U.S. peace plan before it has been made public.Nabil Shaath  a top adviser to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas  said the figures proved that Netanyahu is "not interested in peace" and is destroying hopes for a two-state solution."Netanyahu is continuing his settlement project  enjoying the fact that the U.S. is silent " he said. "These numbers are very dangerous. We condemn it  and will continue working politically to stop it."Both Netanyahu's office and the White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  5:36 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump's favorite TV network is increasingly serving as a West Wing casting call  as the president reshapes his administration with camera-ready personalities.Trump's new national security adviser  John Bolton  is a former U.N. ambassador  a White House veteran — and perhaps most importantly a Fox News channel talking head. Bolton's appointment  rushed out late Thursday  follows Trump's recent attempt to recruit Fox guest Joseph diGenova for his legal team.Bolton went on Fox to discuss his selection and said it had happened so quickly that "I think I'm still a Fox News contributor."Another recent TV-land addition to the Trump White House is veteran CNBC contributor Larry Kudlow as top economic adviser. Other Fox faces on Trump's team: rising State Department star Heather Nauert  a former Fox News anchor; communications adviser Mercedes Schlapp and Treasury Department spokesman Tony Sayegh. The latter two are both former Fox commentators.Advertisement"He's looking for people who are ready to be part of that television White House " said Kendall Phillips  a communication and rhetorical studies professor at Syracuse University. "This is the Fox television presidency all the way up and down."AdvertisementDiGenova  who has accused FBI officials of trying to "frame" Trump for nonexistent crimes  will not be joining the legal team because of "conflicts " said Trump counsel Jay Sekulow on Sunday. Sekulow  however  said diGenova and his wife  attorney Victoria Toensing  also a frequent commentator on Fox  would not be prevented from helping Trump "in other legal matters."Trump's affinity for Fox News is by now well-documented. He has bestowed more interviews on the network than any other news outlet and is an avid viewer. People close to the president say he thinks Fox provides the best coverage of his untraditional presidency. It also provides him a window into conservative thinking  with commentary from Republican lawmakers and right-wing thinkers — many of who are speaking directly to the audience in the Oval Office.On-air personalities Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham are favorites of the president  who also speaks to them privately. This past week Trump promoted Hannity on Twitter  saying: "@seanhannity on @foxandfriends now! Great! 8:18 A.M."The president's early-morning tweets often appear to be reaction to Fox programming. On Friday  for example  Trump tweeted he was "considering" a veto of a massive spending bill needed to keep the government open not long after it was assailed on "Fox and Friends" as a "swamp budget."The critic in question was contributor Pete Hegseth  a favorite of the president who has been rumored to be a possible replacement for embattled Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin.Fox News came in for criticism this past week from CNN chief Jeff Zucker  who on Thursday attacked the rival network by saying it has become a propaganda machine that is "doing an incredible disservice to the country."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Zucker spoke at the Financial Times Future of News conference two days after a former Fox military analyst quit  claiming he was ashamed at the way the network's opinion hosts were backing Trump. Zucker said that analyst  Ralph Peters  voiced what a lot of people have been thinking about Fox in the post-Roger Ailes era.Still  in Trump's Washington  lawmakers and influence-seekers know that the best way to get in Trump's ear is often to get on Fox. Legislators routinely seek to get airtime when they are trying to push legislation or policy ideas  said congressional aides who sought anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss private thinking.Advertisement"A year ago  everyone was trying to figure out how to get into the building; now everyone is trying to figure out how to get on TV " said Republican consultant Alex Conant.This past week  for example  conservative lawmakers unhappy with the spending bill moving through Congress took to Fox. "This may be the worst bill I have seen in my time in Congress " said Jim Jordan  R-Ohio  on Wednesday.And when the school shooting in Parkland  Florida  prompted a national conversation on gun laws  Fox contributor Geraldo Rivera used his platform to urge the president to support raising the age requirement to buy assault-type weapons."You've gotta let me give my pitch " he said on "Fox and Friends" several weeks ago  noting that he would see Trump that night. "Here in Florida and most states a kid cannot buy a beer ... and yet he could buy an AR-15 legally."The hosts quickly pushed back. "Tell him to let the teachers carry concealed " said one.While the coverage varies by show  "Fox and Friends" tends to be Trump-friendly  with the chipper morning show spotlighting his achievements and bashing the "mainstream media." On Friday  they featured a teen from the Florida high school where the shooting occurred who opposes gun control efforts  as well as a young conservative activist who interviewed Trump at a White House event the day before.Also appearing Friday was White House counselor Kellyanne Conway — herself a constant presence on cable news — who pushed back at the idea Trump was focused on hiring TV personalities."The irony is not lost on me that you have a lot of quote 'TV stars' calling Larry Kudlow and John Bolton 'TV stars '" Conway said.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  7:35 A.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his decision to sign a $1.3 trillion federal spending bill despite his misgivings  pointing to billions in new funding for the military and national security.Trump said on Twitter from his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida that because of the military funding  "many jobs are created and our Military is again rich." He said building his signature border wall "is all about National Defense."Since grudgingly signing the bill on Friday after threatening a veto  Trump has faced fierce criticism from conservatives who have accused him of caving to congressional Democrats. The president said Friday at the White House he was "very disappointed" in the package  in part because it didn't fully pay for his border wall. But Trump said he had "no choice" because the nation needed to fund the military.Trump sought $25 billion for his border wall  but the plan included much less — $1.6 billion for building new sections of wall and replacing older sections. Trump tweeted Sunday that much can be done with the money and it's "just a down payment."AdvertisementHe said the "rest of the money will come" and again reiterated that Democrats "abandoned" young immigrants seeking protections. Trump on Friday noted that the bill failed to extend protection from deportation to some 700 000 "Dreamer" immigrants due to lose coverage under a program the president himself has tried to eliminate.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump's veto threat had put him at odds with top members of his administration and Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan  who urged him to sign the bill. But prominent conservatives have criticized the massive spending plan  warning that it could add to the nation's debt.The president on Friday warned Congress that he would "never sign another bill like this again." He called for the Senate to overhaul its rules to allow for simple-majority votes on all bills and urged Congress to provide him with a line-item veto power to kill specific spending items he disagrees with. The Supreme Court ruled in 1998 that a congressionally passed line-item veto was unconstitutional.Advertisement__We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  11:23 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Adult film star Stormy Daniels says she was threatened to keep silent about an alleged sexual encounter with Donald Trump in 2006  telling her story in a highly anticipated interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" broadcast Sunday.Daniels said she was threatened by an unidentified man in Las Vegas to keep quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump  an incident that she said happened while she was with her young daughter. She said in the interview that she had one encounter of consensual sex with the future president."He knows I'm telling the truth " said Daniels  whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford. She does not allege that she was coerced in her encounter with Trump  saying  "This is not a 'Me too.' I was not a victim."The adult film actress provided little new evidence of her alleged 2006 affair with Trump but said she faced intimidation tactics aimed at ensuring her silence in 2011.AdvertisementDaniels said that in the incident  in a parking lot  the man told her: "Leave Trump alone. Forget the story." She said he then looked at her daughter and said  "That's a beautiful little girl. It'd be a shame if something happened to her mom."AdvertisementDaniels received a $130 000 payment days before the 2016 presidential election for her silence and has sought to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement.The White House did not immediately comment Sunday on the interview. Trump  through his representatives  has denied the allegations. His attorney  Michael Cohen  has said Trump never had an affair with Daniels. Cohen has said he paid the $130 000 out of his pocket.Cohen has said neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Daniels and he was not reimbursed for the payment. However  Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti told "60 Minutes" he has documents showing Cohen using his Trump Organization email address in setting up the payment and that the nondisclosure agreement was sent by FedEx to Cohen at his Trump Organization office in Trump Tower.In the interview  Daniels described a sexual encounter with Trump that began with him talking about himself and showing her an issue of a magazine with his picture on the cover. She said she asked  "Does this ... does this normally work for you?" He was taken aback  she says. "And I was like  'Someone should take that magazine and spank you with it.'" She says she then ordered him to drop his pants and  in a playful manner  "I just gave him a couple swats."She said they talked some more  although he quit talking about himself  and that she became more comfortable."He was like  'Wow  you — you are special. You remind me of my daughter.' You know — he was like  'You're smart and beautiful  and a woman to be reckoned with  and I like you. I like you.'"She said after dinner in Trump's room  they had sex. He didn't use a condom  she said  and she didn't ask him to. Afterward  he asked to see her again  she said.AdvertisementDaniels said that before they had sex Trump had broached the idea of her being a contestant on "The Apprentice " and she likened it to a "business opportunity." She said he called her several times and would ask if they could get together again and that he had an update for her. She said she felt that he was dangling the opportunity to keep her coming back."Of course. I mean  I'm not blind. But at the same time  maybe it'll work out  you know?" Daniels said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.In July 2007  a year after they had met  Daniels said Trump asked to meet with her privately at the Beverly Hills Hotel in Los Angeles. She said they did not have sex  but he wanted to.Daniels reported that Trump called her the following month to say he had not been able to get her a spot on his TV show. She said they never met again.Daniels was asked why she's talking now: "Because it was very important to me to be able to defend myself " she said.Daniels said she was fine saying nothing at all. "But I'm not OK with being made out to be a liar  or people thinking that I did this for money and people are like  'Oh  you're an opportunist.  You're taking advantage of this.' Yes  I'm getting more job offers now  but tell me one person who would turn down a job offer making more than they've been making  doing the same thing that they've always done?""60 Minutes" correspondent Anderson Cooper noted during the interview that Melania Trump had recently given birth just a few months before. "Did he mention his wife or child at all in this?" Cooper said. ""I asked. And he brushed it aside  said  'Oh yeah  yeah  you know  don't worry about that. We don't even  we have separate rooms and stuff'" Daniels said.The CBS interview came as Trump deals with allegations about his sexual exploits long before he ran for president.AdvertisementFormer Playboy model Karen McDougal told Cooper in a CNN interview broadcast Thursday that her affair with Trump began at a bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 2006. McDougal said she ended the relationship in 2007 out of guilt.McDougal has filed suit in Los Angeles seeking to invalidate a confidentiality agreement with American Media Inc.  the company that owns the supermarket tabloid National Enquirer. It paid her $150 000 during the 2016 presidential election.The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair  but the story never ran. It also alleges that Cohen was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.Trump is also facing a New York defamation lawsuit filed by Summer Zervos  a former contestant on "The Apprentice." Zervos has accused Trump of unwanted sexual contact in 2007 after she had appeared on the show with him  and sued after he dismissed the claims as made up.A judge ruled the lawsuit can move forward while the president is in office.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 25  2018
For months  scores of President Trump’s nominees for posts from ambassadorships to deputies at cabinet-level agencies have been stalled  awaiting confirmation hearings.But few drives for a confirmation vote have turned into a cause — supported by groups often on opposite sides of the political spectrum — like Richard Grenell’s.Mr. Grenell  a Republican who worked with the incoming national security adviser  John R. Bolton  at the United Nations  was nominated by Mr. Trump last year for the ambassadorship to Germany  becoming the president’s most prominent openly gay appointee.The Senate Foreign Relations Committee advanced his nomination at the end of October  and he appears to have enough support to clear the full Senate.AdvertisementBut like other nominees  he is trapped in arcane parliamentary tactics.Democrats in the Senate have expressed concern about Mr. Grenell’s sometimes caustic Twitter posts. But his nomination has attracted support from an unlikely coalition of conservative commentators and gay rights activists.AdvertisementStuart Milk  who co-founded the Harvey Milk Foundation in honor of his uncle  a prominent gay civil rights pioneer in California who was gunned down decades ago  said he believed that Mr. Grenell’s confirmation would “send an important message” about the gay community’s having a place in the Trump administration.“I understand those who are frustrated with the Trump administration and the actions the Trump administration has taken” who have also opposed Mr. Grenell  Mr. Milk said. “And I think that’s misguided.”“It would be a huge void” if the nomination didn’t proceed  he said.The Log Cabin Republicans  a gay conservative group  have also criticized the Senate’s delay.Hugh Hewitt  a conservative radio host  has for weeks promoted Mr. Grenell’s nomination and questioned why it has not moved forward.“Ric Grenell not getting confirmed is an embarrassment ” Mr. Hewitt told Senator Lindsey Graham  Republican of South Carolina  on a broadcast this month.“Would you go to the leader and get that scheduled?” Mr. Hewitt said. “I just can’t get over this.”Mr. Grenell  who quietly helped with Mr. Trump’s transition process  was the longest-serving American spokesman at the United Nations  working with four United States ambassadors there and especially closely with Mr. Bolton  a staunch foreign policy conservative. Mr. Grenell declined to comment for this article  but he has told allies that he would not take a job at the National Security Council under Mr. Bolton and that he is committed to the ambassadorship.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Senate officials from both parties said a senator appeared to have placed a hold on his nomination  which means moving forward with a vote would require 30 hours of debate  burning up most of a business week. Senate rules do not require the name of the legislator requesting the hold to be made public.AdvertisementLast week  when the Senate majority leader  Mitch McConnell of Kentucky  called for Mr. Grenell to move ahead by unanimous consent  which requires a voice vote  Senator Jeff Merkley  Democrat of Oregon  declined to advance the nomination.Democrats cite concerns about Mr. Grenell’s vocal criticism of the news media on Twitter as a concern.In particular  he excoriated as biased journalists who did not report on the revelations in the hacked emails from the Hillary Clinton campaign chairman  John D. Podesta  when they were made public by the website WikiLeaks.Senator John Barrasso  Republican of Wyoming  said the Senate needed to change the rules to speed up the process.“Today  Democrats deliberately delay in ways that limit us to a couple of nominations in a typical week ” Mr. Barrasso said on the Senate floor last week.Republicans have consistently faulted Democrats for the lack of movement on nominees. So has the White House  where officials have repeatedly criticized Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the Democratic leader.But privately  some White House advisers say Mr. McConnell could do more — like keep lawmakers in Washington — to force nominations through even with the existing rules.Other opponents have dismissed Mr. Grenell as an avatar for gay rights.Hilary Rosen  a Democratic strategist with the firm SKDKnickerbocker and a vocal supporter of gay rights  said in an email  “I don’t think having Richard at the table helps the movement one bit.”For instance  she added  last week “President Trump announced his plan to discriminate against trans troops fighting their country and Grenell  still waiting for his seat at a homophobic table  stayed silent.”A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Opposing Factions Join to Urge Confirmation of a Gay Presidential Appointee.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 25  2018  5:32 P.M. E.D.T.
PALM BEACH  Fla. —  President Donald Trump will not be adding two new lawyers to the legal team defending him in the special counsel's Russia investigation after all  one of the president's attorneys said Sunday.Trump attorney Jay Sekulow said in a statement that Washington lawyers Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing have conflicts that won't allow them to represent the president regarding special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation. Sekulow had announced diGenova's appointment last week.Sunday's announcement came just hours after Trump used Twitter to push back against reports that he's having difficulty adding to his legal team  saying he was "very happy" with his current attorneys."Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case " he wrote  adding: "Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer  though some are conflicted."AdvertisementNeither the president nor Sekulow specified the conflict regarding diGenova and Toensing  who are married to each other and law partners  but their firm has represented other clients in the special counsel's investigation  including former Trump campaign adviser Sam Clovis.AdvertisementSekulow said Trump was "disappointed" that diGenova and Toensing won't be defending him in the special counsel investigation  but "those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the President in other legal matters.""The President looks forward to working with them " he added.On Sunday  diGenova and Toensing released a joint statement  saying  "We thank the president for his confidence in us  and we look forward to working with him on other matters." DiGenova  who provided the statement to The Associated Press  declined to answer additional questions about the nature of his and Toensing's representation of the president.DiGenova had been expected to usher in a new strategy for the president after Trump's lead attorney  John Dowd  resigned last week. Dowd had touted the cooperation of the White House and Trump campaign with Mueller. DiGenova  a former U.S. attorney  has been a fierce defender of Trump on television and accused the FBI of trying to "frame" the president for nonexistent crimes.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Dowd was the primary negotiator and legal strategist who had been putting together the president's legal defense in the Russia probe led by Mueller. The legal team shake-up also comes as Trump's attorneys have been negotiating with Mueller over the scope and terms of an interview with the president. Mueller is investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and whether there was any collusion with the Trump campaign.The president tweeted Sunday  "there was NO COLLUSION with Russia " pointing instead to his 2016 Democratic rival  Hillary Clinton.Sen. Mark Warner  D-Va.  said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that the Russians hacked into the election and every one of the president's top security advisers has said they'll be back. But he said the White House is providing no direction on making election security a top priority.Warner was asked if the president is acting like he has been "compromised" when it comes to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Trump congratulated Putin on his re-election last week and failed to bring up the U.S. election meddling or the poisoning of a former Russian spy on British soil during the conversation."It's more than bizarre that 14 months into this president's administration  he has failed to ever call out Russia. He has failed to ever condemn Putin " said Warner  the leading Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee."There is something just strange about this  and I think it's one of the reasons why Mueller's investigation has to continue and why our investigation has to continue."Advertisement__Day reported from Alexandria  Virginia. AP Writer Kevin Freking in Washington contributed.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 25  2018  2:32 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump will not hire two lawyers to his legal team handling the special counsel's probe despite announcing their addition last week  Trump's personal lawyer said on Sunday  adding to uncertainty about the president's legal representation in the Russia investigation."The president is disappointed that conflicts prevent Joe diGenova and Victoria Toensing from joining the president's special counsel legal team " Jay Sekulow said in a statement. "However  those conflicts do not prevent them from assisting the president in other legal matters. The president looks forward to working with them.'The announcement came nearly a week after Sekulow said diGenova would join the legal team handling Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the 2016 presidential election.The quick reversal is likely to add to the perception that Trump's legal representation is in disarray as his lawyers have been negotiating the terms of a possible interview with the president.AdvertisementTrump's lead lawyer in the special counsel investigation  John Dowd  resigned Thursday."Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case...don’t believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on " Trump tweeted on Sunday.AdvertisementTrump has denounced the investigation as a "witch hunt." Russia denies meddling in the election.DiGenova has appeared on Fox News accusing the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Justice Department of trying to frame Trump with false charges of colluding with Russia during the campaign.Trump wanted to hire diGenova after seeing him on television  but the conflicts were obvious  said a person familiar with the matter  who added that it was surprising that consideration for adding diGenova to Trump's team had gotten so far."We thank the president for his confidence in us and we look forward to working with him ” on other matters  Toensing said in a statement on behalf of both her and diGenova. The married pair work together at their namesake law firm.Toensing declined to comment on what specific conflicts may have led to the work on the Russia legal team falling through.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.DiGenova & Toensing has represented Mark Corallo  a former spokesman for Trump's legal team  and Sam Clovis  a former campaign aide.Corallo was the spokesman for Trump's outside lawyers until last summer  when he resigned during another legal team shake-up.Since then  Corallo has spoken with Mueller about what he viewed as a false statement dictated by Trump from Air Force One about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in New York City that included several Russians  according to a person familiar with the matter. That meeting was attended by Trump's son  Donald Jr.Clovis  a former Pentagon official  was a campaign supervisor who wrote "great work" in an email after Trump's  foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos discussed efforts to broker a meeting between the campaign and Russian leaders.AdvertisementCorallo told Reuters on Friday that he had signed a waiver of potential conflicts last week.Clovis could not be reached for comment  but a person familiar with the matter said appropriate waivers had been signed.DiGenova was at the White House on Thursday  according to a person familiar with the meeting.Trump has had trouble finding outside lawyers to assist him in the Russia probe.Major firms such as Williams & Connolly and Gibson  Dunn & Crutcher turned him down in the last year  citing conflicts  people familiar with the matter have told Reuters.Trump representatives have reached out to some of those firms again more recently  sources said.(Reporting by Karen Freifeld in New York; Writing by Dustin Volz; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »