AdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — After 61 weeks in the White House  President Trump has found two people he won’t attack on Twitter: Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal.The verbose commander in chief has posted more than 2 900 times on Twitter since taking office  using the term “FAKE NEWS” to describe everything from the Russia inquiry and allegations of chaos in the White House to harassment accusations  the size of his inaugural crowds and heated arguments with world leaders.But he has been uncharacteristically silent in recent days — to the relief of his advisers — as a pornographic film star and a Playboy model described intimate details of sexual encounters with Mr. Trump. Stephanie Clifford  known in pornographic films as Stormy Daniels  said Sunday night on CBS’s “60 Minutes” that she once spanked the president with a copy of Forbes magazine bearing his face on the cover.The fact that the president has not given oxygen to the headlines  however  does not mean that he is content.AdvertisementInside the White House  Mr. Trump is eager to defend himself against allegations that he insists are false  those close to him say. And he is growing increasingly frustrated with breathless  wall-to-wall news media coverage of the salacious details from the two women.AdvertisementOn Monday  Ms. Clifford’s lawyer added new charges to the suit she filed: that the president’s lawyer defamed Ms. Clifford in denying her claims; that he and Mr. Trump pursued the deal to specifically help Mr. Trump’s election prospects; and that he then structured the agreement to shield from public view what was  effectively  an illegal $130 000 campaign gift.In discussions with allies and some aides  Mr. Trump has privately railed against Ms. Clifford  and insisted that she is not telling the truth. He has reminded advisers that he joined an effort to enforce financial penalties against Ms. Clifford  whose TV interview on Sunday night was hyped throughout the weekend on the cable news channels that Mr. Trump watches obsessively.But there has been no debate among Mr. Trump’s advisers about the best course for him: just keep quiet about a story that would only be fueled by a presidential tweet or a comment about the women shouted above the roar of Marine One.Keeping a lid on Mr. Trump is never easy  especially when he is eager to hit back at his adversaries.In the days after an “Access Hollywood” video exposed his own lewd comments about women during the final month of the campaign  Mr. Trump responded by showing up at his debate with Hillary Clinton with three women who had accused Bill Clinton of sexual improprieties.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As a candidate  and as president  Mr. Trump has eagerly attacked just about all of his enemies and accusers  often with colorful nicknames like “Little Rocket Man” for the North Korean leader  “Crazy Joe Biden” or “Sloppy Steve” Bannon.But for now  it appears that the president is listening to — and accepting — his advisers’ warnings on the dangers of speaking out about the women  much the way he followed the advice of his lawyers for a year not to attack Robert S. Mueller III  the special counsel in the Russia inquiry.AdvertisementRecently  he has ditched that advice  attacking Mr. Mueller and his team directly on Twitter. That leaves only his alleged mistresses and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia as people who are immune to Mr. Trump’s Twitter trash-talk.Raj Shah  a deputy White House press secretary  declined to say “what the president may or may not have seen” on television Sunday night  though he said that Mr. Trump denies the allegations that Ms. Clifford made in the CBS interview.“I’ll just say that he’s consistently denied these allegations ” Mr. Shah said. “The president doesn’t believe that any of the claims that Ms. Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate.”Mr. Trump dined at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday evening with Michael D. Cohen  his lawyer and longtime aide who is at the center of the Clifford scandal  according to three people familiar with the get-together. The president scheduled the meeting himself  surprising his aides with it a short time before Mr. Cohen arrived  people familiar with the meeting said.Melania Trump  too  has been silent about the allegations. Asked to react to the interviews  Stephanie Grisham  Mrs. Trump’s spokeswoman  said: “She’s focusing on being a mother  she’s quite enjoying her spring break and she’s focused on future projects.”It is not clear whether Mr. Trump watched a similar tell-all interview on CNN on Thursday evening  when Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  alleged a 10-month romantic affair with Mr. Trump in which they repeatedly had sex.Sunday’s interview with Ms. Clifford contained few surprises but some humiliating details  such as Ms. Clifford saying she was not attracted to Mr. Trump  and her recollection of spanking him. Virility and strength are key traits that the president likes to project  and he once gloated about a New York Post headline quoting a friend of his second wife  Marla Maples  who recalled Ms. Maples saying that Mr. Trump was the “Best Sex I’ve Ever Had.”In the interview  Ms. Clifford said that she had flirted with Mr. Trump in 2006 at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe. She said Mr. Trump had compared her favorably to his daughter during the flirtation  and that she had intercourse with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementShe also alleged that an unknown person whom she believed to be connected to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen threatened her in a parking lot in 2011  telling her  “leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then looking at her infant daughter  he added  “That’s a beautiful little girl. It would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”Asked by Anderson Cooper whether she had anything to say to Mr. Trump  if he was watching Sunday night  Ms. Clifford said  “He knows I’m telling the truth.”Even that has not prompted Mr. Trump to directly address the central allegations from Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal — that the president cheated on his wife shortly after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son.Mr. Trump did type out a vague “Fake News” tweet on Monday morning  although it is unclear to what he was referring.
            So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all  our country is doing great!        Beyond the details of the alleged encounters  Mr. Trump’s advisers have been urging the president to keep quiet about the legal wrangling concerning Ms. Clifford and Ms. McDougal.Ms. McDougal  who accepted $150 000 from the parent company of the National Enquirer to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Mr. Trump  is suing the company to be released from the contract. Mr. Cohen has acknowledged paying Ms. Clifford $130 000 in the days before the 2016 election to keep quiet about her allegations.Mr. Shah said at the White House on Monday that “I can say categorically that  obviously  the White House didn’t engage in any wrongdoing.”Asked about why Mr. Trump’s lawyer would pay Ms. Clifford $130 000 if her allegations were false  Mr. Shah said that “false charges are settled out of court all the time.” He referred further questions about the case to Mr. Cohen.AdvertisementThe lawyer for Ms. Clifford has aggressively argued that his client is not bound by the nondisclosure agreement that she signed  in part because Mr. Trump himself never signed the document. Michael Avenatti  the lawyer  has repeatedly used Trumplike insinuations to suggest that Ms. Clifford has digital evidence of the intercourse.“We have a litany of more evidence in this case  and it’s going to be disclosed  and it’s going to be laid bare for the American public ” Mr. Avenatti said in an interview Monday morning on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”Last week  Mr. Avenatti tweeted a picture of a CD or DVD with the suggestive caption: “If a picture is worth a thousand words  how many words is this worth???? #60minutes #pleasedenyit #basta.”Even that has not prompted a presidential retort — yet.An earlier version of this article misstated the title of Raj Shah. He is a deputy White House press secretary  not the White House press secretary.Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from New York.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Privately Rails Against a Porn Actress. On Twitter? Silence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Charles M. BlowAs Richard Haass  president of the Council on Foreign Relations  tweeted Friday:“@realDonaldTrump is now set for war on 3 fronts: political vs Bob Mueller  economic vs China/others on trade  and actual vs. Iran and/or North Korea. This is the most perilous moment in modern American history — and it has been largely brought about by ourselves  not by events.”I agree fully with this assessment.Some have viewed President Trump’s recent moves as a sign of rising self-assuredness in the man.I see quite the opposite. I see a man growing increasingly irascible as his sense of desperation surges. The world is closing in on Trump and he is in an existential fight for his own survival.This is precisely what makes him so dangerous: As the personal threat to him grows  his threat to the country grows. The power of the American presidency is an awesome power  and Trump will harness and deploy it all as guard and guarantee against his own demise.Add to his sense of panic his compounding emotional and psychological liabilities: He has an inflated view of his own skills  talents and expertise. He knows only a fraction of what he has convinced himself that he knows.He prefers casual conversation to literary examination  opting to listen rather than to read  which is both a sign of a severely compromised and restrained intellect and an astounding arrogance about one’s information absorption.While pundits mull whether the cloud of chaos Trump keeps swirling around him is simple incompetence or strategic plotting  The New York Times reported Friday:“Aides said there was no grand strategy to the president’s actions  and that he got up each morning this week not knowing what he would do. Much as he did as a New York businessman at Trump Tower  Mr. Trump watched television  reacted to what he saw on television and then reacted to the reaction.”This is all gut and instinct. This is all reactionary emoting by a man of poor character  one addicted to affirmation. He desperately needs to be the king-of-every-hill he sees in the mirror: He was the ladies’ man  businessman  smartest man  toughest man. There was nothing beyond him  and he didn’t have to follow the rules  he only had to follow his instincts.But Washington politics is a long way from New York City real estate. Wrangling Senate votes is a long way from prowling for playmates. This is the big leagues and this little man is feeling the stress and strain of it.Even if he can’t be good  he at least wants to look good  to fake it to try to make it. This may be one of the reasons he is inviting so many television personalities into his cabinet.This is all just window dressing. Trump is truly in the cross hairs  and he knows it.Just as he is going to war on three fronts  he is being attacked on three fronts.The Robert Mueller investigation is bearing down on him as an inevitable in-person interview with Trump — and all of its potential pitfalls — draws nearer. I have resisted predictions about what could come of the investigation because it would be little more than conjecture. Only Mueller knows what Mueller knows. But  it appears to me that the president is surely acting like a guilty man  or at least someone trying to shield another who is guilty.Then there is the porn star  the playmate and the reality star: Three women currently in litigation over sexual contact with Trump — two admittedly consensual and one allegedly not. The most tantalizing and threatening of the three is the case with porn star Stephanie Clifford  whose stage name is Stormy Daniels. Daniels and her attorney  as well as language in the nondisclosure agreement that she signed  suggests that she has some compromising written and photographic evidence about her encounters with Trump.Furthermore  in Daniels  Trump seems to have met his match as an internet troll. When someone on Twitter asked Clifford  “What snack foods do you recommend for watching you on “60 Minutes” tomorrow night? Nachos and wings feel so January  you know?” Clifford responded: “Tacos and mini corndogs just seems so right … and yet  so wrong. I believe the more traditional choice is popcorn  however.”Yes  the subtext of that tweet is exactly what you think it is. Note to self: Never pick a fight with a porn star.And now with the massive March For Our Lives  we see that going into the midterms not only are black voters and suburban white women energized against this president and his congressional protectors  so are young people who feel betrayed  particularly on the issue of gun control  by politicians beholden to the N.R.A.Trump talked big about standing up to the N.R.A.  and then summarily caved to the N.R.A.If this surge of enthusiasm leads to Democrats flipping the House — and the long shot  the Senate — and something comes of the Mueller investigation or the women’s lawsuits  you can rest assured that impeachment proceedings will be in the offing. This is why Trump is going to war.I invite you to join me on Facebook and follow me on Twitter (@CharlesMBlow)  or email me at chblow@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JAMES PONIEWOZIKMARCH 26  2018
“I don’t think anyone’s ever spoken to him like that.”Stephanie Clifford was talking  on “60 Minutes ” about her alleged sexual encounter with Donald J. Trump in 2006. Specifically  the pornographic film actress and director  who goes by the name Stormy Daniels  was describing the moment when she suggested spanking Mr. Trump with a magazine that had his picture on the cover. (According to her  he acquiesced.)But she could just as well have been describing the way she has told her story (which representatives for President Trump have denied). None of Mr. Trump’s many media antagonists have taken him on in quite this way  on his own terms  using some of the same tactics he did as a celebrity  candidate and president.Others have come at Mr. Trump with indignation  righteousness and appeals to decency. Ms. Clifford swatted Mr. Trump with a rolled-up network newsmagazine.Speaking to Anderson Cooper  Ms. Daniels was direct and conversational. She had playful one-liners. (“You didn’t even buy me breakfast ” she told Mr. Cooper.) She told a story. (Describing how she said Mr. Trump awaited her on the edge of a hotel bed — “perched” — she mimed his sitting position and bearing.)AdvertisementBut most important — most  dare I say it  Trumpian — she was unapologetic.There’s a familiar script for discrediting women who accuse powerful men. They’re attacked as opportunistic and promiscuous  out to make a buck. If they deny any of that  it still ends up making the moral conversation about them.AdvertisementMs. Clifford owned her story and her life. Yes  she’s stripped and had sex on camera for a living  a “legitimate — and legal  I’d like to point out — career.” Yes  she’s gotten job offers from her publicity: “Tell me one person who would turn down a job offer making more than they’ve been making.”That should sound familiar. Running for president  Mr. Trump jiu-jitsued facts that would have ended other candidacies into selling points. Did he give money to candidates he later attacked? That meant he knew how to work the system  and thus could fix it. Did he avoid paying income taxes? “That makes me smart.”His brazenness was the brazenness of reality TV  the argument of a finalist in a “Survivor” tribal council who tells the jury to hate the game  not the player.Just so  Ms. Clifford has used unshamability and quick-draw ripostes as a force field. When a critic on Twitter told her that “dumb whores go to hell ” she shot back  “Glad I’m a smart one.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Clifford’s story had plenty of tidbits  salacious (her statement that Mr. Trump did not use a condom)  bizarre (her recounting of watching an entire “Shark Week” documentary with him) and disturbing (her charge that a man threatened her  in front of her infant daughter  if she spoke about Mr. Trump). But running through it was a theme: I know who I am  and that’s exactly why you should believe me.Mr. Cooper made the case that the story was worth covering  at double length  on CBS’s flagship newsmagazine. He recognized the story was about sex  asking for details up front and pressing Ms. Clifford on her motives — whether she might get a book deal  for instance. But he moved on to look  at some length  at the possibility that a $130 000 payment for Ms. Clifford’s silence might be an illegal campaign contribution.Even more  as the subject turned to threats  payoffs and nondisclosure agreements  the interview became about power  the ability of wealthy men to pay  pressure or coerce women into silence. (The alleged parking lot encounter aside  Mr. Trump’s lawyers have openly threatened Ms. Clifford with financial ruin.) It’s about who gets to decide when their stories get told and under what terms.Ms. Clifford made a point of emphasizing that she was “not a victim” in having sex with Mr. Trump  even though she described an encounter she was  at best  unenthusiastic about. “You put yourself in a bad situation and bad things happen  so you deserve this ” she said.AdvertisementA few days earlier  Mr. Cooper sat down on CNN with Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model who says she had an extended affair with Mr. Trump at around the same time as Ms. Clifford. Ms. McDougal described having been in love with Mr. Trump  then guilty and apologetic for having a relationship with a married man with a newborn child.Ms. Clifford  on the other hand  represented herself as having no illusions about herself or Mr. Trump. Asked if she thought he had offered her a role on “The Apprentice” to keep her romantically interested  she said  “Of course. I’m not blind.”To paraphrase one of Mr. Trump’s campaign lines  she was saying that she knew he was a snake when he took her in. With this admission  she implicitly told the audience: Look  we’re all adults here. We know how these things work.As an argument  that was 100 percent Trump. Mr. Trump did not put Ms. Clifford on his TV show. But she did make it on TV  where she proved an adept apprentice in his media techniques. Maybe even a master.A version of this review appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Stormy Daniels  Out-Trumps Trump.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Christopher Oldstone-MooreJohn Bolton’s appointment as national security adviser is surprising in at least one respect. Mr. Bolton does not conform to President Trump’s well-attested preference for hiring people from “central casting” — that is  svelte women and square-jawed  clean-shaven men. Insiders report that when Mr. Trump first assembled his cabinet  he rejected Mr. Bolton for secretary of state because of his eccentric brush mustache.But central casting  in the guise of Fox News  has encouraged the president to reconsider this prejudice  and having done so  he’s unlikely to regret it. Trump may think he’s mustache-averse  but what he’s likely to realize over the course of the next few months is that this particular form of facial hair — in addition to Mr. Bolton’s established track record for bellicosity — can signal a tendency toward the sort of masculine impulsiveness and aggression that is dear to Mr. Trump’s own heart.This is not to disparage men with mustaches. They come in all varieties — and context is everything. In the realms of modern business and politics  however  facial hair has particular resonance. Beards and mustaches were effectively banished from these worlds more than a century ago. And so a man who persists in wearing a large mustache is deliberately standing out as a nonconformist. What does he reject? He rejects the longstanding shaving standard  and to some extent  its associated virtues: propriety  discipline and sociability.The reasons that mustaches were abandoned at the beginning of the 20th century are complicated  but have to do with hygiene and corporate business culture. Germs were discovered at the end of the nineteenth century  and facial hair was subsequently condemned as unsanitary and uncivilized. Just as importantly  employers rejected facial hair as a mark of indiscipline and unprofessionalism.This new shaving standard was a sharp departure from the previous century  when mustaches were ensigns of resolute and pugnacious manliness — so much so  that most European armies required their officers and recruits to muster with standard black mustaches. And so 20th-century men who cultivated their upper lips inevitably  if sometimes inadvertently  invoked this military past  with an additional element of nonconformity. This dynamic explains the edginess of the likes of Jimi Hendrix and Frank Zappa  the bravado of Reggie Jackson and Hulk Hogan  and the tough-guy charm of Tom Selleck and Burt Reynolds.The 1930s and 40s were the heyday of Hollywood mustaches. Errol Flynn  Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and Jr.  Adolphe Menjou and Clark Gable all graced the silver screen with rapier mustaches. Even the mild-mannered Bing Crosby was briefly persuaded to try one.The responses from audiences were mixed: One the one hand  they made leading men appear more manly  free of conventional restraints. Their roguish  free-spirited independence offered a fantasy of liberated masculinity that appealed to men and women alike.But the allure of the “modern caveman ” as one critic described the newly mustachioed Clark Gable  was counteracted by an underlying sense of aggressiveness that audiences  particularly women  found unattractive. One studio studied the question  presenting test audiences with scenes featuring Tyrone Power with and without a mustache. The result was that Mr. Power appeared shaved in subsequent films.This contrast of manly types could be seen as akin to the Freudian battle between self-assertion and social control. A shaven man was perceived as a team player  disciplined and sociable. A man with facial hair  by contrast  was more impulsive and independent  playing by his own rules.It was for this reason that voters  from the 1920s onward  regarded mustachioed politicians with suspicion. If two-time presidential runner-up Thomas Dewey  whom one admirer dubbed the “Clark Gable of candidates ” had shaved his upper lip  history might have been kinder to him. In 1944  journalist Edith Efron wrote about Dewey’s mustache in The New York Times Magazine: “It fascinates. It amuses. And it repels.” His lip adornment helped Dewey achieve a reputation for toughness  but also for arrogance. After his 1948 defeat  Dewey only half-jokingly told some visiting boy scouts  “remember  fellows  any boy can become president unless he’s got a mustache.”In subsequent years  facial hair was a feature of the rebellious left. In our times  it is still nonconformist in business and politics  though today one is just as likely to find it on the political right  which has increasingly developed its own rebellious counterculture. For every Che Guevara  there is a Geraldo Rivera; for every hairy hipster  a hirsute hunter. This brings us back to Mr. Bolton  and to Mr. Trump himself.Mr. Bolton’s disregard for shaving norms is a faithful reflection of his fierce independence  and his general disdain for established political ground rules and diplomatic norms. His vitriolic language and passion for conflict prevented him from winning Senate confirmation in 2005 as ambassador to the United Nations. He is the ego in conflict with the super-ego of the political establishment: Negotiations and treaties are for wimps  and so are razors.Reporters have noted that early in his presidency  Mr. Trump felt tentative  and inclined to listen to the advice of people around him. Today he is increasingly going with his gut  and worries far less about convention or conventional looks. As he throws off the shackles on his own ego  he has turned to a similarly liberated national security adviser. Even if he still does not like Mr. Bolton’s mustache  Mr. Trump may be drawn to the pugnacious manliness it represents.In historical context  Mr. Bolton’s mustache fits perfectly for a man who follows no rules. No wonder he has vowed never to shave it off. And no wonder that  in spite of initial misgivings  the “Disruptor-in-Chief” has turned to him. Perhaps Mr. Trump will consider growing one himself some day.Christopher Oldstone-Moore is senior lecturer of history at Wright State University and the author of “Of Beards and Men: the Revealing History of Facial Hair.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy RICK GLADSTONEMARCH 26  2018
The Iran nuclear accord  assailed by President Trump and his revamped retinue of advisers  received a strong endorsement Monday from a bipartisan group of more than 100 national security veterans  who said the United States gains nothing by scrapping it.The group  including 50 retired military officers and at least four former American ambassadors to Israel  added its voice to a fractious debate over the accord  which Mr. Trump has called “the worst deal” ever.In a statement  the group  which calls itself the National Coalition to Prevent an Iranian Nuclear Weapon  enumerated 10 reasons that  in its view  preserving the accord is in the best interests of the United States.They included the determination by United Nations inspectors that the accord is working; the importance of preserving close relations with major European allies  which all support the accord; and the possibility of reaching a nuclear agreement with North Korea  which might not negotiate if it believes that the United States abrogates international pledges.Advertisement“President Trump should maintain the U.S. commitment to the Iran nuclear deal ” the signers said in the statement. “Doing so will bring substantial benefits and strengthen America’s hand in dealing with North Korea  as well as Iran  and help maintain the reliability of America’s word and influence as a world leader. Ditching it would serve no national security purpose.”AdvertisementThe signers cover a range of prominent diplomatic and military figures  Democrat and Republican  spanning decades of foreign policy experience. They include Brent Scowcroft  a former national security adviser; Gen. Michael V. Hayden  former director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency; former Senators Richard G. Lugar and Sam Nunn; Adm. Eric T. Olson  former commander of Special Operations Forces; and Adm. William J. Fallon  former commander of the United States Central Command.Former ambassadors who signed include Ryan C. Crocker  who served in Afghanistan  Iran  Pakistan  Syria  Kuwait and Lebanon; Daniel C. Kurtzer  who served in Israel and Egypt; James B. Cunningham  who served in the United Nations  Israel and Afghanistan; Thomas R. Pickering  a former under secretary of state who served in Israel  Russia  India  El Salvador  Nigeria  Jordan and the United Nations; and William C. Harrop  who served in Israel and as the State Department’s inspector general.The release of their statement came less than two months before an American law requires Mr. Trump to decide whether to restore nuclear-related sanctions on Iran. He has suggested that he will restore them  which would effectively terminate the American pledge to heed the nuclear agreement’s provisions.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 2015 agreement  negotiated under President Barack Obama  curtails Iran’s nuclear activities in exchange for eased economic sanctions. It provides for unprecedented international inspections of Iranian facilities to ensure compliance with Iran’s repeated vow that it will never develop a nuclear weapon.Mr. Trump has criticized provisions of the agreement that expire after a number of years  arguing they should be permanent. He also has complained that the accord does not prohibit Iran’s ballistic missile activities.His views have been welcomed by the governments of Israel and Saudi Arabia  which both see Iran as a regional menace  and in Israel’s view  an existential threat.Britain  France and Germany  which signed the nuclear accord  agree with Mr. Trump’s concern about Iranian missiles  but say that issue should be discussed separately.Iran has said it will not renegotiate the nuclear agreement.The prospects that Mr. Trump will terminate American participation rose significantly in the past few weeks  when he dismissed his secretary of state and national security adviser  replacing them with loyalists who are outspoken in their antipathy toward Iran.Mr. Trump’s new choices for secretary of state  the C.I.A. director Mike Pompeo  and for national security adviser  the former ambassador John R. Bolton  have both denounced the nuclear agreement.AdvertisementWendy R. Sherman  a former under secretary of state who was the lead American negotiator for the nuclear agreement  said in an Op-Ed essay published in The New York Times on Monday that Mr. Bolton’s elevation  in particular  “has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump has stayed in touch with Rob Porter  the former White House staff secretary who stepped down after allegations that he had abused his two former wives came to light  according to three people familiar with the conversations  and has told some advisers he hopes Mr. Porter returns to work in the West Wing.The president’s calls with Mr. Porter have increased in the last few weeks  as the number of people he is close to in the White House has dwindled because of the large number of staff departures  the people familiar with the calls said.In Mr. Trump’s orbit  few people are ever permanently exiled. He often sees aides who are subject to public criticism as extensions of himself  coming under fire because critics want to attack him  and he has described the Porter situation in those terms to some people  those briefed on the discussions said.The president has told the advisers he has talked with that he knows he probably cannot bring Mr. Porter back. But he has made clear that he misses the staff structure that Mr. Porter had helped build and implement  a White House official said  speaking on background because advisers were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Mr. Porter also served as a de facto deputy chief of staff for policy  playing a key role on issues like tariffs  and Mr. Trump spent as much as two hours a day with him.AdvertisementIt was not immediately clear how many conversations Mr. Porter has had with the president since leaving  but one person familiar with the discussions said they have talked about trade and how to navigate granting exemptions to the tariffs Mr. Trump announced last week.What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.A White House spokesman declined to comment. Mr. Porter also declined to comment.Mr. Porter left the White House on Feb. 7  after The Daily Mail published accounts from his two ex-wives claiming emotional and physical abuse during the course of his marriages to them. One story included a photo of one of the ex-wives  Colbie Holderness  with a black eye she said Mr. Porter had given her.AdvertisementMs. Holderness  who split with Mr. Porter in 2008  and his second wife  Jennifer Willoughby  have both been vocal about their allegations about their ex-husband. Mr. Porter has denied the allegations  and said the photograph did not tell the full story of either marriage. Mr. Trump has told some advisers that the news media scrutiny of Mr. Porter was so excessive that it left him unable to defend himself.Mr. Trump has told people that he believes that Mr. Porter’s departure was botched  primarily but not exclusively by his chief of staff  John F. Kelly. White House officials initially said at the time that Mr. Porter had decided on his own to resign  and some said Mr. Kelly had asked Mr. Porter to stay on. But they later offered a different account — that Mr. Kelly had told Mr. Porter to resign soon after learning of the allegations  though there were multiple accounts of how Mr. Kelly had been aware of some of the allegations for months.Despite his responsibilities  Mr. Porter did not have a five-year security clearance  only an interim one  during his time at the White House. His interim clearance was never revoked after a full F.B.I. investigation  a fact some White House officials noted when he resigned as an indication that his case was more nuanced and complex than news media accounts had suggested.But his case led to a sweeping change in how the White House handles interim security clearances  with a new process that some White House officials have privately said is being used as a weapon against specific staff members  with partial information being dribbled out to the press in an inflammatory way.One of those people  some in the White House believe  was Mr. Trump’s personal assistant  John McEntee  who was hustled out of the White House so quickly two weeks ago that he did not have time to collect his jacket. Mr. McEntee had a gambling habit that could have led to financial issues  White House officials have said  but early news accounts painted him as under criminal investigation  reports that were later contradicted.Mr. Trump has told advisers that Mr. McEntee is a “good kid” who was dealt with unfairly and that he would like to bring him back.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 27  2018  on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Pines for an Aide Who Resigned.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and EILEEN SULLIVANMARCH 26  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russians from the United States on Monday  adding to a growing cascade of similar actions taken by western allies in response to Russia’s alleged poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.Poland  Italy  Denmark  France and Germany were among 14 European Union member nations announcing plans to expel Russians from their countries in solidarity with Britain  which previously expelled 23 Russian diplomats after the poisoning. Canada also said it would expel four.The American expulsion order  announced by administration officials  includes 12 people identified as Russian intelligence officers who have been stationed at the United Nations in New York  and also closes the Russian consulate in Seattle. The Russians and their families have seven days to leave the United States  according to officials.The expulsions are the toughest action taken against the Kremlin by President Trump  who has been criticized for not being firm enough with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. The officials said the action was a coordinated effort with other allies. Poland announced it would expel several Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning. And Germany announced plans to expel four Russian diplomats within the next week.AdvertisementIn a call with reporters  senior White House officials said that the move was to root out Russians actively engaging in intelligence operations against the country  and to show that the United States would stand with NATO allies. The officials said that the closure of the consulate in Seattle was ordered because of its proximity to a U.S. naval base.Advertisement“Today’s actions make the United States safer by reducing Russia’s ability to spy on Americans and to conduct covert operations that threaten America’s national security ” the White House said in a statement.The Kremlin has maintained that it had nothing to do with the poisoning.Britain’s decision to expel 23 Russian diplomats over the poisoning initially raised tensions between the two countries to a level not seen since the heights of the Cold War. The government vowed to crack down on Russian spies  corrupt elites and ill-gotten wealth in Britain.On March 15  the Trump administration imposed sanctions on a series of Russian organizations and individuals for interference in the 2016 presidential election and other “malicious cyberattacks ” its most significant action against Moscow until Monday.Those sanctions came as the United States joined Britain  France and Germany in denouncing Russia for its apparent role in a nerve-gas attack on a former Russian spy and his daughter on British soil  calling it a “clear violation” of international law.White House officials called the nerve agent used against the Skripals “military grade ” but declined to elaborate on the substance used.American officials estimate there are currently more than 100 Russian intelligence officers in the United States.Mr. Trump has said that  despite its denials  Russia was likely behind it. “It looks like it ” he told reporters in the Oval Office on March 15  adding that he had spoken with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.Advertisement“We are in deep discussions ” Mr. Trump continued. “A very sad situation. It certainly looks like the Russians were behind it. Something that should never  ever happen. And we’re taking it very seriously  as I think are many others.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump has been slower to act than leaders in Britain  France and Germany over the attack  in which Sergei V. Skripal  66  a former spy  and his daughter  Yulia Skripal  33  were attacked with a nerve agent.The senior administration officials who described the expulsion order said the three weeks that lapsed between the attack and White House action was due to close coordination among about a dozen American allies.Poland has positioned itself to take a lead role in coordinating a response from the Eastern European nations traditionally most wary of their giant neighbor to the east.The Russian ambassador to Poland  Sergei Andreyev  was summoned to the foreign ministry on Monday morning and informed of imminent diplomatic action against his country. The Polish foreign minister was expected to make an announcement later this afternoon.The Polish foreign minister  Jacek Czaputowicz called the tragic incident in Britain an “unprecedented attack on civilians with the use of chemical weapon ” that had not been seen since World War II.Mr. Czaputowicz said the Russian ambassador and three other diplomats were now considered “persona non grata ” giving them until April 3 to leave the country.Russia’s overall goal  Mr. Czaputowicz said  is to “disrupt international order and create a sense of danger.”Any expulsion of Russian diplomats would be an unprecedented move on Warsaw’s part  the first time they took diplomatic action against their neighbor due to Russian behavior outside of Poland.AdvertisementSince Poland broke from the Soviet bloc in the 1990s  it has expelled Russian diplomats only twice — and both times had to do with Russia’s spying activities in Poland.Germany’s move not only signaled solidarity with London  but it also suggested the incoming German foreign minister  Heiko Maas  may be more hawkish toward Moscow than his predecessor.“The attack in Salisbury shook us all in the European Union ” Mr. Maas  said. “For the first time since the end of World War II a chemical war agent was used in the middle of Europe.”Mr. Maas said Germany did not take the decision “flippantly.”“But the fact and indications point to Russia. The Russian government has so far not answered any of the open questions and has shown no readiness to play a constructive role in solving this attack ” he said.Because of an editing error  an earlier version of this article misstated a recent action by Poland. It announced the expulsion of several Russian diplomats  but not the Russian ambassador.Marc Santora contributed reporting from Warsaw.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy KENNETH P. VOGEL and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICKMARCH 25  2018
WASHINGTON — For Elliott Broidy  Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign represented an unparalleled political and business opportunity.An investor and defense contractor  Mr. Broidy became a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s campaign when most elite Republican donors were keeping their distance  and Mr. Trump in turn overlooked the lingering whiff of scandal from Mr. Broidy’s 2009 guilty plea in a pension fund bribery case.After Mr. Trump’s election  Mr. Broidy quickly capitalized  marketing his Trump connections to politicians and governments around the world  including some with unsavory records  according to interviews and documents obtained by The New York Times. Mr. Broidy suggested to clients and prospective customers of his Virginia-based defense contracting company  Circinus  that he could broker meetings with Mr. Trump  his administration and congressional allies.Mr. Broidy’s ability to leverage his political connections to boost his business illuminates how Mr. Trump’s unorthodox approach to governing has spawned a new breed of access peddling in the swamp he vowed to drain.AdvertisementMr. Broidy offered tickets to V.I.P. inauguration events  including a candlelight dinner attended by Mr. Trump  to a Congolese strongman accused of funding a lavish lifestyle with public resources. He helped arrange a meeting with Republican senators and offered a trip to Mar-a-Lago  the president’s private Florida resort  for an Angolan politician. And he arranged an invitation to a party at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel for a Romanian parliamentarian facing corruption charges  who posted a photograph with the president on Facebook.AdvertisementThis type of access has value on the international stage  where the perception of support from an American president — or even a photo with one — can benefit foreign leaders back home.Mr. Broidy was open about his business interests  but the administration made no effort to curtail his offers of access to clients or prospective clients.Yet Mr. Broidy was so aggressive  some associates said  that they warned him to tone down his approach for fear that he might run afoul of the president  clients or American lobbying and anti-corruption laws.As with so many other political conventions  Mr. Trump has upended the traditional system of access to the president  among the most prized chits in Washington. That is partly because of lax vetting that has allowed largely unfettered access to Mr. Trump and his White House by loyalists  friends and hangers-on with their own policy agendas or business interests.But it is also because few of Washington’s established lobbyists have close connections to the president. In their place  a new class of insider has emerged  able to lobby the president directly on behalf of clients or business partners  an uncommon opportunity in prior administrations  when lobbyists focused on winning support from lawmakers or regulators.In a statement  Mr. Broidy said the success of his company reflected his recruitment of “the best people  including a number of former flag officers ” not his political connections. “The idea that our success derives from activities around last year’s presidential inauguration is not only misplaced but insulting to the careers and capabilities of our highly trained and decorated veterans ” he said.Mr. Broidy  60  in some ways personifies this new breed of Trump insider. A lifelong Los Angeles resident who worked as an accountant before making a fortune as an investor  Mr. Broidy grew more interested in politics after the Sept. 11 attacks  which shaped his hawkish approach to foreign policy and concern for the defense of Israel. In 2005  he was appointed to a federal homeland security advisory panel.AdvertisementMr. Broidy pleaded guilty in 2009 to giving nearly $1 million in illegal gifts to New York state officials to help his company land a $250 million contract with the state’s public pension fund. He paid $18 million in restitution and avoided jail time.As he worked to rebuild his bank account and reputation  he expanded his business interests in the defense and security industry  starting a company called Threat Deterrence in 2013 and purchasing Circinus in July 2015.Mr. Broidy initially supported Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016  embracing Mr. Trump only after Mr. Cruz dropped out.His business took off after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus has won lucrative work from around the world  including contracts worth more than $200 million to do defense work for the United Arab Emirates. And Mr. Broidy openly promoted Circinus’s work in meetings with Mr. Trump and other Republican officials  according to documents and interviews.But Mr. Broidy faces a sudden backlash.One of his business partners  George Nader   is cooperating with the special counsel  whose investigators have asked about Mr. Nader’s contacts with top Trump administration officials as well as his possible role in funneling money from the U.A.E. to Mr. Trump’s political efforts  according to people familiar with the inquiry.Mr. Nader helped Circinus gain access to U.A.E.’s crown prince  while also using Mr. Broidy as a conduit  to shape Trump administration policy toward the Persian Gulf on behalf of the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia  both American allies. Mr. Broidy  in turn  appears to have helped Mr. Nader get his photograph taken with Mr. Trump at a fund-raiser  over the unspecified objections of the Secret Service. Mr. Nader has been convicted on charges related to child pornography and sexual abuse of minors.Hundreds of pages of Mr. Broidy’s emails  proposals and contracts were provided to The Times by an anonymous group critical of Mr. Broidy’s advocacy of American foreign policies in the Middle East. Mr. Broidy’s representatives say they have proof that the documents were stolen by hackers working for Qatar in retaliation for his efforts to rally opposition in Washington to Qatar  a regional nemesis of the Saudis and the Emiratis. The Qataris dismiss this charge.The documents reveal that Mr. Broidy  a vice chairman of the finance committee for Mr. Trump’s inauguration  arranged invitations to parties celebrating the event for foreign leaders with whom Circinus worked to sign contracts that could have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Broidy in some cases presented the invitations in a manner that suggested they were linked to their countries’ willingness to do business with Circinus.AdvertisementFor instance  Mr. Broidy invited Denis Sassou-Nguesso  the longtime president of the Republic of Congo  to a handful of inauguration week events  including the candlelight dinner featuring Mr. Trump  Vice President Mike Pence and their wives. “Your name has been submitted and approved ” Mr. Broidy wrote to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso in a note on Broidy Capital Management letterhead. Mr. Broidy stressed that the invitation was from Mr. Broidy and “is not coming from the Joint Congressional Committee” on Inaugural Ceremonies  which oversees the swearing-in and a luncheon at the Capitol.The day after the letter was dated  Mr. Broidy asked his team at Circinus to prepare an invoice for $2 million to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso’s office for “military capabilities assessment and review/services ” according to emails and documents.People close to Mr. Broidy said no invoice was sent and Circinus never worked for the Congolese government. Mr. Sassou-Nguesso declined the invitation to the inauguration festivities  they said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Donors to previous inaugurations were also able to invite foreign heads of state to events as their guests  a spokesman for Mr. Broidy noted.Two officials from Romania  another prospective Circinus client  met Mr. Trump at a private party to which Mr. Broidy invited them during inauguration week at the Trump International Hotel near the White House. Liviu Dragnea  a parliamentary leader who runs the Social Democratic Party  called for closer ties between Romania and the United States  prompting Mr. Trump to declare  “We will make it happen! Romania is important for us!” according to Mr. Dragnea’s Facebook post  reported by McClatchy.At the time  Mr. Dragnea faced corruption charges  which he continues to fight. But for months after the inauguration  Circinus continued pitching his government partly on the access it could provide to Mr. Trump  according to a person who works with the Romanian government and was briefed on the solicitation.Circinus has yet to receive contracts from Romania  people close to Mr. Broidy said. The company entered into an agreement last month with a Romanian government-owned defense company that appears to give it the inside track for contracts valued at more than $200 million  according to Romanian news media and people familiar with the contracting process.Similarly  in a letter dated Jan. 3  2017  and emailed to top Angolan government officials  Mr. Broidy indicated that he was also sending both an invitation to the inauguration festivities and a proposal for Circinus to provide security services for Angola. In one version of the proposal  the company sought nearly $64 million over five years. “With numerous preparations ahead  we request that you kindly return the executed document no later than January 9  2017 ” Mr. Broidy wrote in the letter to João Lourenço  then the Angolan defense minister  and another Angolan official.Three days before inauguration  the Angolans submitted a $6 million payment to Circinus  which people close to Mr. Broidy say was $2 million less than the Angolans had agreed to pay. That same day  the Angolans and Mr. Broidy met on Capitol Hill with senators including Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin  both Republicans  encounters arranged by Mr. Broidy and his team.About one month later  Mr. Broidy again wrote to Mr. Lourenço  discussing plans for him “to be joining us at Mira Largo” — an apparent reference to Mar-a-Lago  where Mr. Broidy is a member and has been spotted introducing guests to the president — “this coming weekend.”Advertisement“Many preparations have been made in advance of your visit  including additional meetings at the Capitol and the Department of Treasury ” Mr. Broidy wrote.He went on to remind Mr. Lourenço that Angola was past due on “the balance of the payment” for Circinus’s services. “Please make this payment immediately ” he wrote.Not long after Mr. Lourenço was inaugurated as president of Angola in September  Mr. Broidy wrote again to congratulate him and offer to help set up meetings with Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence. “Before the formalities which would naturally be in order between our governments  I am able to assess and advise in this matter  and would be delighted to help foster such closer relation between Luanda and Washington ” Mr. Broidy wrote  referring to the Angolan capital.Mr. Lourenço did not come to Mar-a-Lago and never responded to the letters  according to people close to Mr. Broidy. Circinus never collected any additional funds from Angola beyond the initial $6 million payment  they said.Mr. Broidy emphasizes to potential clients how his connections to Mr. Trump could benefit them  according to several people who have worked with him or heard his pitches.“He was mentioning that he has political connections  and it could be helpful ” said Eymen Errais  a counselor to the Tunisian Ministry of Development  Investment and International Cooperation.Mr. Errais and the department’s minister  Fadhel Abdelkefi  met with Mr. Broidy and Circinus executives in Tunisia a few weeks after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus sought a contract to build an open-source intelligence center for the Tunisian government  a person familiar with the meeting said  but Mr. Abdelkefi’s ministry instead sought to persuade Mr. Broidy to invest in the Tunisian hospitality industry.AdvertisementNonetheless  in an email to Mr. Abdelkefi just after the meeting  Mr. Broidy vowed that the center “would be an extremely useful and effective tool for your government” and again emphasized his connection to Mr. Trump. He characterized the incoming administration as “an unprecedented opportunity  in that the House  Senate and executive branch of our government are all under Republican control for the first time in 10 years.”Circinus prepared a proposal for a five-year contract totaling $80 million for the Tunisian work. But Mr. Errais said the Tunisians decided not to do business with Circinus. “A connection with Trump — how would that help us for security?” he said.A person close to Mr. Broidy said he discussed the Republicans’ control of Congress and the White House to suggest that the American government might increase spending on counterterrorism.Mr. Broidy’s allies say he has never hidden the overlap between his business interests and his political activity. In a memorandum about an October Oval Office meeting  for example  Mr. Broidy wrote that he had volunteered to Mr. Trump that his company was seeking a contract from the United Arab Emirates and had tried to arrange a private meeting for the president to discuss the matter with their leader  Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.But as scrutiny has mounted around Mr. Broidy  Republican officials signaled that he would be a distraction at a high-dollar fund-raiser with Mr. Trump this month in Los Angeles. Mr. Broidy helped plan it and was listed as a co-host.After conversations with Ronna McDaniel  the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee  he volunteered not to attend  according to people briefed on the situation.The dinner and round-table with the president proceeded without him.Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington  and David D. Kirkpatrick from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 26  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Marketing Ties to Trump  Top Donor Made Millions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  4:28 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Adult film star Stormy Daniels is suing President Donald Trump's lawyer Michael Cohen for defamation after he called into question her claim that she had a sexual encounter with Trump  according to court documents filed on Monday.In the filing in federal court in Los Angeles  Daniels' attorney said "Cohen meant to convey that Ms. Clifford is a liar  someone who should not be trusted  and that her claims about her relationship with Mr. Trump is 'something (that) isn’t true.'"(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  10:52 A.M. E.D.T.
The following statements were posted to the verified Twitter accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump  @realDonaldTrump and @POTUS.The opinions expressed are his own. Reuters has not edited the statements or confirmed their accuracy.@realDonaldTrump :- The economy is looking really good. It has been many years that we have seen these kind of numbers. The underlying strength of companies has perhaps never been better. [0705 EDT]- So much Fake News. Never been more voluminous or more inaccurate. But through it all  our country is doing great! [0840 EDT]-- Source link: (http://bit.ly/2jBh4LU) (http://bit.ly/2jpEXYR)(Compiled by Bengaluru bureau)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »