AdvertisementBy PETER BAKER  ANDREW HIGGINS and STEVEN ERLANGERMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — Some senior Trump administration officials are pressing for more aggressive action toward Russia  hoping to persuade a reluctant President Trump to change his approach after a week of mass diplomatic expulsions that have driven the relationship with Moscow to its lowest point in decades.With hundreds of diplomats in Washington  Moscow and European capitals packing their bags as the tensions stemming from the poisoning of a former Russian spy living in Britain have worsened  the Trump team is eyeing additional sanctions and other measures against Russia. But while aides say the president has become increasingly convinced that Russia is dangerous  he has still refused to embrace a tougher public posture himself and remains uncertain how far to authorize his administration to go.Mr. Trump has emphasized the importance of dialogue with Russia and its president  Vladimir V. Putin  yet the departure of so many diplomats expelled from both Russia and the United States will make it that much harder to maintain a semblance of normal relations between the two countries. Cooperation in areas as varied as agriculture  counterterrorism  military affairs and space exploration could diminish  as could private travel and business dealings.The perils of the diplomatic breakdown came into sharper relief on Friday. Russia’s ambassador in Washington lamented that no one would meet with him  and his embassy complained that Russian diplomats were being harassed by American intelligence agencies eager to recruit them.AdvertisementThe Pentagon  for its part  said that it had no notice of a test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile conducted by Russia and announced on Friday  a lack of communication that experts worry could lead to miscalculation.Advertisement“I don’t remember such bad shape of our relations ” Anatoly Antonov  the Russian ambassador to Washington  told NBC’s “Today” show. “There is a great mistrust between the United States and Russia.”Since his arrival last year in Washington  Mr. Antonov said he had invited American officials to his residence only to be repeatedly rebuffed. “If they are scared  I said  ‘Come on  we can meet in a restaurant and to discuss all outstanding issues ’” he said. “It was four or five months ago. And I got answer: silent.”American officials said a shift in the administration’s approach has been building for weeks. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson  whose last official day on the job is Saturday  had come to the conclusion before Mr. Trump fired him this month that a year of attempting to cooperate had not yielded much success  according to people familiar with his thinking. As a result  they said  Mr. Tillerson had begun mapping out a tougher policy toward Russia and found agreement in the White House.The administration began taking a more robust approach  publicly blaming Russia for a devastating attack on computers in Ukraine and elsewhere  accusing Moscow of trying to break into the United States’ power grid and imposing sanctions in retaliation for Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election in the United States.Mr. Tillerson’s feelings were hardened further by a conversation with Boris Johnson  the British foreign secretary who described to him the nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy  Sergei V. Skripal  and his daughter living in Britain. Even in the hours before his dismissal by Mr. Trump  Mr. Tillerson spoke out in stronger terms than the president in condemning the poisoning.While Mr. Tillerson is on the way out  his designated successor  Mike Pompeo  and the incoming national security adviser  John R. Bolton  are both considered even more hawkish on Russia.At the same time  some officials at the Pentagon have expressed caution about the escalating conflict with Russia  citing consequences in Syria  where the United States and Russia have both conducted military operations.AdvertisementThe Trump administration expelled 60 Russian diplomats and intelligence officers and closed the Russian Consulate in Seattle this week as part of a wider international retaliation for the poisoning of Mr. Skripal. Russia responded Thursday by ordering out 60 Americans and closing the consulate in St. Petersburg.The scope of Russia’s retaliation grew clearer on Friday as the Kremlin summoned 23 ambassadors from other countries to evict some of their diplomats. On Saturday  the Tass news agency reported that Moscow had informed Britain it must send home a total of “more than 50” diplomats. Russia had already announced the expulsion of 23 Britons.Mr. Trump has remained publicly silent amid the dramatic rounds of diplomatic retaliation  leaving it to others to condemn Moscow. Frustrated by the investigation of the special counsel  Robert S. Mueller III  into whether his campaign cooperated with Russia in 2016  a scenario he dismissed as a “hoax ” Mr. Trump recently called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his victory in a re-election widely dismissed as a sham.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Trump made no mention of the poisoning of Mr. Skripal during the call but instead suggested that he wanted to schedule a summit meeting with the Russian president.Both countries still have ambassadors in place  so high-level contact on potentially calamitous matters should continue  as it did at the height of the Cuban missile crisis. But the wheels of basic diplomacy  involving visas  consular services  cultural events and simply talking to people  are grinding ever more slowly and  in some cases  coming to a halt.“The parties lose some of their eyes and ears  so the quality of the reporting goes down ” said Charles A. Kupchan  who was the Europe director of the National Security Council under President Barack Obama. “It’s not just intelligence but day-to-day political and economic reporting: What’s the buzz in the street  what do interlocutors say? And consular services do get hit.”The expulsions left many diplomats wondering how the American Embassy in Moscow could operate. Much of the burden will fall on the ambassador  Jon M. Huntsman Jr.  who took over an embassy already struggling to function after an order by the Kremlin last summer that it dispense with 755 employees in response to sweeping American sanctions for Russia’s election meddling.“The embassy is struggling to do basic operations. This latest round will hurt ” said Michael A. McFaul  who served as ambassador in Moscow from 2012 to 2014. “Morale  of course  is also very low.”Even before this week’s expulsions  the wait in Moscow to obtain a visitor’s visa to the United States was among the longest in the world. It now takes 250 days just to get an appointment with the visa section  compared with four in Beijing and 31 in New Delhi.AdvertisementAn American spokesman told Russian news media this week that the embassy had been placed under “significant constraints” by the Foreign Ministry and “could not accommodate all their many requests at all times  particularly for large groups.”Simon Schuchat  a former diplomat at the embassy in the Moscow  recalled how haphazard and unnerving it was when Russia began the process of ousting alleged spies during a round of expulsions in 2001. Inevitably  Moscow ordered out diplomats unconnected to espionage.“They tended to go for people with better language skills ” Mr. Schuchat said  adding that they “missed many spies and included many non-spies.”This time around  intelligence officers working under “official cover” as diplomats were especially targeted  but some American officials played down the impact  saying the United States still came out ahead in the expulsions.“That’s to our benefit ” Dan Coats  the director of national intelligence  said at a seminar on Thursday in Austin  Tex. “There are a lot more Russians in America than Americans in Russia in the intelligence agencies.”On Friday  Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused the agencies overseen by Mr. Coats of exploiting the situation by approaching Russian diplomats leaving the United States to offer “assistance” in exchange for “entering into covert relations” on behalf of the American government.“The ploy is not working ” the ministry said in a statement  “but their behavior is cynical and distasteful  as if Washington has stepped completely beyond the bounds of common decency.”Peter Baker reported from Washington  Andrew Higgins from Moscow  and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Gardiner Harris contributed reporting from Washington  Matthew Luxmoore from Moscow  and Eric Schmitt from Austin  Tex.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Is Urged To Get Tougher On Russia Policy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy ERIC SCHMITT  HELENE COOPER and ALISSA J. RUBINMARCH 30  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump  having this week signaled a possible withdrawal of American troops from Syria  has ordered the State Department to suspend more than $200 million in funds for recovery efforts there while the administration reassesses its role in the conflict  administration officials said Friday.The freeze on stabilization and humanitarian aid came as two members of the United States-led coalition fighting in Syria were killed — one American soldier and one British — and five others were wounded by a bomb in a late-night attack  the military said on Friday.The attack took place near Manbij in northern Syria  and is believed to have been carried out by remnants of the Islamic State fighting force  a senior American military official said.A statement posted by the United States Central Command  which directs American forces in the region  said “an improvised explosive device” detonated about 11 p.m. local time on Thursday.AdvertisementThe statement did not reveal the identities of the service members involved  how seriously the survivors were hurt or where in Syria the attack occurred. The American-led coalition includes about 30 countries  but only a few have forces on the ground.Advertisement“The names of the deceased will be released at the discretion of the pertinent national authorities ” the statement said. “Details pertaining to the incident are being withheld pending further investigation.”A statement released on Friday by the Ministry of Defense in London confirmed that the second soldier killed in the blast was British  and that the mission was to counter fighters with the Islamic State.Coalition forces have been deployed to Syria to fight  alongside Kurdish militia allies  against the Islamic State. But with that group largely routed  the seven-year civil war in Syria has entered a dangerous new phase.Two American allies  Turkey and the Kurds  who control parts of northern Syria  are fighting each other. And the Kurds and coalition forces are engaged in a tense standoff with the Syrian government  along with its allies — Russia  Iran and Iranian-backed militias.On Thursday  President Trump suggested that the United States could pull its approximately 2 000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” The comments surprised Defense Department officials who have maintained that some kind of American presence in parts of Syria may be necessary to avoid recreating the conditions that led to the rise of the Islamic State — and also to avoid ceding influence in the country to Russia.“Very soon  we’re coming out ” Mr. Trump said during a rally in Ohio. “We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”The suspension of funds for recovery efforts in Syria comes as the administration reassesses its role in the conflict there  a State Department official said on Friday. The freeze on funding was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“There will be meetings on this next week ” said the official  who spoke on the condition of anonymity because a policy review was continuing. “Obviously  we  State  hope that this decision is reversed.”AdvertisementA National Security Council official explained the White House’s position: “In line with the president’s guidance  the Department of State continually re-evaluates appropriate assistance levels and how best they might be utilized  which they do on an ongoing basis.”Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson had committed the aid in February in Kuwait at a meeting of countries who have joined together to defeat the Islamic State.Pentagon officials in the past few months have said repeatedly that a complete withdrawal of American troops could leave a void. On Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground ” they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.It was unclear how the death of the American service member in the newest attack would influence Mr. Trump’s thinking on a possible American withdrawal. Beyond that  the Islamic State remains in the eastern half of Syria  and Defense Department officials caution that suggestions the group has been completely routed understates the Islamic State presence in Syria.As if to demonstrate the complexity of the situation in Syria  President Emmanuel Macron of France sought on Thursday to position his country as a bridge between the Kurdish fighters and Turkey by serving as a mediator in talks — an effort that was rejected by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.Mr. Macron told a delegation of that included a number of Syrian Kurds that France “honored the sacrifices and the determining role” played by Kurdish fighters in the battle against the Islamic State  which has largely been driven out of Syria  and he expressed concern about Afrin  the northern enclave where Turkey recently pushed out the Kurds.He stopped short  however  at least in his public statements  from offering to back the Kurds militarily. It was a similar balancing act as the one taken in February by Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian  who when asked about Turkey’s incursion in northern Syria said that France had already warned that it was “not acceptable to add war to war” in Syria.Mr. Erdogan ridiculed his French counterpart on Friday  saying that he met with Mr. Macron last week and that the French leader was saying “weird things” that required Mr. Erdogan to say  “tough.”“We don’t need a negotiator ” Mr. Erdogan said. “Since when has Turkey had an issue of sitting down at a table with terror groups? Where did you get this? You can sit down with terror groups  but Turkey fights against terror as it did in Afrin. You keep going on like this. Who do you think you are that you can utter the word negotiating between Turkey and terror groups?”Eric Schmitt and Helene Cooper reported from Washington and Alissa J. Rubin from Paris. Richard Pérez-Peña and Michael Wolgelenter contributed reporting from London.A version of this article appears in print on March 31  2018  on Page A5 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Orders Freeze on Syria Financing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »The conservative author says that Donald Trump is in danger of losing his most loyal supporters  including her  if he doesn’t build the wall.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack NicasSAN FRANCISCO — Two days after Donald J. Trump won the 2016 election  executives at Google consoled their employees in an all-staff meeting broadcast around the world.“There is a lot of fear within Google ” said Sundar Pichai  the company’s chief executive  according to a video of the meeting viewed by The New York Times. When asked by an employee if there was any silver lining to Mr. Trump’s election  the Google co-founder Sergey Brin said  “Boy  that’s a really tough one right now.” Ruth Porat  the finance chief  said Mr. Trump’s victory felt “like a ton of bricks dropped on my chest.” Then she instructed members of the audience to hug the person next to them.Sixteen months later  Google’s parent company  Alphabet  has most likely saved billions of dollars in taxes on its overseas cash under a new tax law signed by Mr. Trump. Alphabet also stands to benefit from the Trump administration’s looser regulations for self-driving cars and delivery drones  as well as from proposed changes to the trade pact with Mexico and Canada that would limit Google’s liability for user content on its sites.Once one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal opponents  Silicon Valley’s technology industry has increasingly found common ground with the White House. When Mr. Trump was elected  tech executives were largely up in arms over a leader who espoused policies on immigration and other issues that were antithetical to their companies’ values. Now  many of the industry’s executives are growing more comfortable with the president and how his economic agenda furthers their business interests  even as many of their employees continue to disagree with Mr. Trump on social issues.The relationship remains bumpy. Mr. Trump lashed out at Amazon on Twitter on Thursday  accusing the e-commerce giant of evading taxes. (Amazon said it had saved $789 million under the tax law Mr. Trump signed.) The president is also expected to sign legislation   passed by the Senate last week  that would strengthen policing of sex trafficking online — a bill that internet companies once opposed because they worried it would make them liable for content posted by their users.Yet quietly  the tech industry has warmed to the White House  especially as companies including Alphabet  Apple and Intel have benefited from the Trump administration’s policies.Those include lowering corporate taxes  encouraging development of new wireless technology like 5G and  so far  ignoring calls to break up the tech giants. Mr. Trump’s tougher stance on China may also help ward off industry rivals  with the president squashing a hostile bid to acquire the chip maker Qualcomm this month. And Mr. Trump let die an Obama-era rule that required many tech start-ups to give some workers more overtime pay.Mr. Trump “has been great for business and really  really good for tech ” said Gary Shapiro  who leads the Consumer Technology Association  the largest American tech trade group  with more than 2 200 members including Apple  Google  Amazon and Facebook.Mr. Shapiro said that he had voted for Hillary Clinton  Mr. Trump’s opponent  in 2016  but that he and many tech executives had come around on Mr. Trump. While they disagree with him on immigration and the environment  they have found areas where their interests align  like deregulation and investment in internet infrastructure.“This isn’t Hitler or Mussolini here ” Mr. Shapiro said. And even though the president’s new tariffs on steel and aluminum could hurt American businesses and consumers  “disagreement in one area does not mean we cannot work together in others ” Mr. Shapiro said. “Everyone who is married knows that.”Mr. Trump himself has taken to naming tech companies he says are on his side.After Apple took advantage of the new tax law in January to bring back most of the $252 billion cash hoard that it had parked overseas  the company said it would make a $350 billion “contribution to the U.S. economy” over the next five years. That prompted Mr. Trump to suggest he had made good on a campaign pledge to get Apple to bring jobs back to the United States.“You know  for $350 million  you could build a beautiful plant. But for $350 billion  they’re going to build a lot of plants ” the president told members of Congress last month. Mr. Trump said he had called Timothy D. Cook  Apple’s chief executive  to personally thank him.In fact  Apple has no plans to build a plant in the United States. The company is uneasy with Mr. Trump’s invoking it to signify how his policies are working  according to a person close to Apple who was not authorized to speak publicly. Apple has not  however  publicly corrected the president.Mr. Trump has also stayed quiet on the controversy engulfing Facebook over user privacy  while other politicians have called for more regulations after revelations that the British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested the information of 50 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica used that data to aid Mr. Trump’s campaign.Michael Kratsios  the White House’s deputy chief technology officer  said in an interview that while Mr. Trump and Silicon Valley had their differences  “in places where we do see eye to eye  I think we’re achieving extraordinary success.”Dean Garfield  head of the Information Technology Industry Council  a 102-year-old advocacy group that represents the biggest tech firms  said his members walked a tightrope  supporting and opposing the president on different issues. Lately  he said  “we have reached balance in the tightrope.”The equilibrium marks a turnabout from what had been a testy relationship between Mr. Trump and the tech sector. On the campaign trail in 2016  Mr. Trump was so critical of tech companies that Jeff Bezos  Amazon’s chief executive  once joked he might send Mr. Trump to space in a rocket.Some tech executives have since disagreed with Mr. Trump on social issues. Mr. Cook emailed staff last June to say he had unsuccessfully lobbied the president to remain in the Paris climate accords. In November  Microsoft sued the administration to protect a law that blocks deportation of young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. More than 100 companies  including Google  Facebook and Uber  filed a brief supporting California’s lawsuit on that issue.Even so  tech executives worked to build a relationship with the president  with some meeting him at Trump Tower before his inauguration and again at the White House in June. While in Washington for the second meeting  Mr. Cook and Satya Nadella  Microsoft’s chief executive  also dined with Jared Kushner  the president’s senior adviser and son-in-law  and Ivanka Trump at the couple’s Washington home  according to a person briefed on the meeting who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it. This month  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin visited Apple’s headquarters.Silicon Valley has found plenty to like about the Trump presidency. In September  tech giants including Facebook and Microsoft teamed up with the administration to pledge $500 million to computer science education. Amazon  Microsoft and Google are also eyeing the administration as a potential customer as Mr. Trump pushes to modernize the government’s digital infrastructure.But Silicon Valley’s favorite thing about Mr. Trump is almost certainly his new tax code. Many tech companies lobbied for corporate tax reform for years before Mr. Trump signed the new tax bill.Tech giants immediately reaped the benefits. Under the new rules  Apple saved $43.7 billion in taxes  according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research group. Apple then announced the $350 billion “contribution” to the economy over five years.Most of the tally was previously planned spending with American suppliers and a $38 billion tax payment on its overseas cash. But Apple also said it planned to hire 20 000 new workers  invest in new data centers and another domestic campus  and increase a fund for innovative American manufacturers to $5 billion from $1 billion. It also gave employees $2 500 bonuses.The president was quick to tweet the news.The shifting relationship between Silicon Valley and Mr. Trump appears to have upset some tech employees. A Facebook page called “Angry Googler ” with nearly 1 000 followers  has been dedicated to criticizing Google for any sign it was cooperating with the president.“Not happy about Google pulling a 180 and jumping into bed with Trump? Same here ” said the “About” section of the page  which suggests it is run by a Google employee. This month  the page posted an article about Google helping the Defense Department analyze drone footage. “We’ve gone from organizing the world’s information to … optimizing weapons of war ” the page said.Messages to the account were not returned. Google declined to comment.Some tech firms remain discomfited about appearing as the president’s allies. Last month  Rob Goldman  Facebook’s vice president of advertising  played down Russia’s impact on the 2016 election after the Justice Department charged 13 Russians with trying to subvert its outcome  including by using Facebook. Mr. Trump retweeted Mr. Goldman approvingly.Facebook was uncomfortable with that association with the president  said a person close to the company who was not authorized to speak publicly.Two days later  Facebook’s policy chief  Joel Kaplan  distanced the company from Mr. Goldman’s comments.“The special counsel has issued its indictments  and nothing we found contradicts their conclusions ” he said in a statement. “Any suggestion otherwise is wrong.”Kitty Bennett contributed research from Washington.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy JIM RUTENBERG  KATE KELLY  JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and MIKE McINTIREMARCH 29  2018
In July  David J. Pecker  the chairman of the company that owns The National Enquirer  visited his old friend President Trump at the White House.The tabloid publisher took along a special guest  Kacy Grine  a French businessman who advises one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men and sometimes acts as an intermediary between Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Western businesses.The two men and other Pecker associates chatted with the president in the Oval Office and briefly met with Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and Middle East envoy  Jared Kushner. Before moving on to dinner with the group  the president had a photographer snap pictures of the guests standing with him behind his desk.Mr. Pecker has long used his media empire to protect Mr. Trump’s image. During the 2016 presidential campaign  Mr. Pecker’s company  American Media Inc.  suppressed the story of a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump.AdvertisementThe night of the dinner  Mr. Pecker got something from Mr. Trump: an unofficial seal of approval from the White House.AdvertisementIt was an opportune moment for Mr. Pecker to showcase his White House connections. He was considering expanding his media and events businesses into Saudi Arabia and also was hunting for moneyed partners in acquisitions.The intersection of the tabloid publisher with the Saudis  enhanced by the White House visit  is a previously untold chapter in the long  symbiotic relationship between the president and Mr. Pecker  which was forged in the 1990s. At the time  Mr. Trump was celebrating a real estate comeback after his casino bankruptcies and was both the subject and the source of much gossip in New York.Mr. Pecker  who had known Mr. Grine only for a few months  invited him to the dinner to thank him for advice he had provided about investing in the Middle East  according to someone who knew of the invitation.Word soon traveled back to Saudi Arabia about the dinner: It signaled Mr. Pecker’s powerful status in Washington.Two months later  he was in Saudi Arabia  meeting with Mr. Grine and the crown prince about business opportunities there  according to A.M.I.And by January  Mr. Pecker was confident enough about his growing rapport with Saudi investors that he sought their help bankrolling a possible acquisition of Time magazine  which he had long coveted  according to two people with direct knowledge of the talks. A.M.I. disputed that.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.The people briefed on the interactions between A.M.I. and Saudi Arabia requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The outcome of Mr. Pecker’s efforts to do business with the Saudis remains unclear. But he is still working to cultivate ties. This week  he and Mr. Grine both attended events in New York featuring Prince Mohammed  who is on a tour across the United States.AdvertisementAhead of that visit  A.M.I. published a 97-page glossy magazine that is essentially a promotional brochure for Saudi Arabia and the crown prince. It makes no mention of anything troubling  like the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen  human rights concerns or the crown prince’s arrest last fall of many extended royals  including Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  an influential client of Mr. Grine’s.The magazine — which refers to Saudi Arabia throughout as “the Magic Kingdom” — includes an interview with Mr. Grine  accompanied by a photo of him posing with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office  taken during his visit with Mr. Pecker. It talks up the relationship between Mr. Trump and the Saudis  noting that Mr. Trump “endorsed the crown prince’s high profile anticorruption” crackdown.A.M.I. has said it produced the magazine to “capitalize” on interest in the crown prince  who is next in line to the throne  and has been careful to say it received no input or guidance from Saudi officials. That carries important legal implications: Foreign direction or control of such a purely promotional publication may require disclosure to the Justice Department. The Saudi government did not respond to a request for comment.The magazine — 200 000 copies distributed in Walmart and other outlets  with a cover price of $13.99 and no advertising — provided a unique welcome mat for the prince  whose visit comes as the Trump administration is trying to establish tighter ties with the kingdom. Both countries are touting cross-border investment opportunities  including a pledge by the Saudi government to put $20 billion into a fund that will invest in American infrastructure projects. The kingdom is also nearing a deal to buy American-made missiles and other military equipment.Mr. Grine  a 30-year-old French citizen  has helped broker deals between Saudi investors and companies in France  Senegal and the United States. He and Mr. Pecker were introduced last spring by Ari Emanuel  chief executive of Endeavor  the huge talent  entertainment and sports company based in Beverly Hills  Calif.Mr. Grine and Mr. Pecker soon had a series of discussions about the investment landscape in Saudi Arabia  according to a person briefed on the talks. Mr. Pecker extended the White House dinner invitation shortly afterward.A.M.I. would not say who else was among the “select group of friends” Mr. Pecker took to the White House at the president’s invitation. During the evening  the Middle East and the recent French elections came up. In a statement  A.M.I. said  “The entire conversation was social  with the exception of a couple very brief mentions of current events.”AdvertisementMr. Pecker is best known for The Enquirer  but his media empire is wide-ranging. A.M.I.’s titles include Men’s Journal  Hers  Flex and Muscle & Fitness.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The publisher has used the company at times to protect close friends  including Mr. Trump. Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  recently filed a lawsuit alleging that Mr. Trump’s lawyer was secretly involved when A.M.I. tried to bury her story about an affair with Mr. Trump. A.M.I. bought the rights to her story during the presidential campaign for $150 000 but never published it. In the world of gossip media  such a maneuver is known as a “catch and kill” operation.Mr. Trump’s lawyer Michael D. Cohen and A.M.I. have denied the allegations. Mr. Trump’s representatives say the affair never happened.During the campaign  The Enquirer also published scathing articles about Mr. Trump’s rivals  as well as perceived antagonists like the television host Megyn Kelly. In promoting Mr. Trump  The Enquirer endorsed a candidate for the first time in its history.Since he entered the White House  A.M.I. titles have run articles alleging a “deep state” plot to undermine Mr. Trump. As scandals engulfed the White House  a recent Enquirer cover blared: “Donald & Melania Fight Back! Exposing the Lies  Leaks and Intimidation. How They’ll Crush Their Enemies!”The support appears mutual. Mr. Trump at times has praised Mr. Pecker’s stewardship of A.M.I. He once endorsed Mr. Pecker to run Time magazine  whose cover  Mr. Trump has incorrectly asserted  has featured him more than anyone else.“David Pecker would be a brilliant choice as CEO of TIME Magazine — nobody could bring it back like David!” Mr. Trump wrote in a Tweet in 2013.Asked about Mr. Pecker’s interest in Time  A.M.I.’s chief content officer  Dylan Howard  said  “Any media executive worth his or her salt must look at any acquisition opportunity in today’s media climate.”A.M.I. has struggled financially. It went through a series of restructurings in the last decade  including a bankruptcy in 2010 in which the company reported up to $1 billion in debts  before being acquired four years ago by two private equity funds.AdvertisementThe company said in a statement that it was “in an incredibly stable financial position.”Mr. Pecker has continued to hunt for new acquisitions. Last year  he bought Us Weekly from Wenner Media. But money remained scarce  according to A.M.I.’s financial advisers. When Mr. Pecker’s friend Harvey Weinstein suggested last fall that they team up to purchase Rolling Stone  Mr. Pecker expressed little interest. “I can not contribute any cash ” he wrote in an email obtained by The New York Times.In that same Sept. 28 exchange  he wrote to Mr. Weinstein: “I am in Saudi Arabia on business. Can’t call from here.”During the visit to Saudi Arabia  Mr. Grine arranged for himself and Mr. Pecker to meet with Prince Mohammed  who is the chairman of the kingdom’s deep-pocketed Public Investment Fund. At the meeting  Mr. Pecker described his vision for expanding his events business  which includes the Mr. Olympia bodybuilding competition  into Saudi Arabia.Maggie Haberman and Megan Twohey contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tabloid Mogul Visited Trump To Woo Saudis.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank BruniDonald Trump has a boatload of problems. Ann Coulter  the author of a 2016 book titled “In Trump We Trust ” is now one of them.A week ago  when he signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill with nothing for his promised border wall  her frustrations with him  expressed frequently in her syndicated columns  turned into fury. “Congratulations  President Schumer!” she tweeted to more than 1.9 million followers. She also fantasized on Twitter about his impeachment.During an appearance at Columbia University on Tuesday night  she referred to him as a “shallow  lazy ignoramus.” And during a long conversation with me at The Times on Thursday afternoon  she sent him a warning about the wrath he’d face if the wall doesn’t rise: “The Former Trumpers should keep Donald Trump awake at night.”Coulter isn’t just any Trump critic. She was one of his earliest  most prominent — and fiercest — advocates. He came down that escalator and ranted about Mexican rapists and she swooned. Understandably: His diatribes against immigrants were cribbed from her 2015 best seller  “¡Adios  America!: The Left’s Plan to Turn Our Country into a Third World Hellhole.” It was published around the time of his campaign announcement. She had sent him an advance copy.“Perhaps no single writer has had such an immediate impact on a presidential election since Harriet Beecher Stowe ” David Frum  a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush  later observed in The Atlantic.So Coulter was Trump’s muse. She was also his oracle  predicting his nomination and election back when most others still dismissed him as a joke. And she’s a barometer of  and tribune for  some of his core supporters  including her good friend Matt Drudge.It’s for that reason that I pressed her to visit The Times. We spoke for about an hour. We could have clashed over an array of issues and recent statements of hers. But the agenda was her relationship with Trump and his political bind: He is pleasing neither her nor swing voters in the suburbs. That has implications not just for 2020 but also for the November midterms.Her agreement to talk hinged in part on our history. I have been discussing politics with her for almost two decades. I remember vividly a dinner in early 2016 when she laid out for me how Trump would prevail. She mentioned Michigan  Wisconsin  Pennsylvania. I thought she was delusional. Then came Nov. 8.What follows is a condensed and edited transcript of our conversation.Frank Bruni: Over the last few days you have become one of Trump’s fiercest critics. What happened?Ann Coulter: What was great about him being a coarse vulgarian was that he didn’t care about the opinions of Manhattan sophisticates  so when they come to him and say  “Oh  no  you can’t say you want to build a wall  that’s such a gauche opinion  that’s held by the people in the outer boroughs.” Anyone else would say  “Oh  no  I’m sorry  was anyone watching? Oh  I didn’t mean Mexicans are sending their rapists. I meant they’re sending their Nobel Prize winners. They’re sending their absolute best here. That’s what I meant.” That’s what any other Republican would have done — instantly gone cowering. He never did that.But something switched Nov. 8. Suddenly it was: “Please like me  Goldman Sachs.”Bruni: The $1.3 trillion spending bill that he signed last week sent you over the edge.Coulter: Yes. This is a different category you’re seeing now: Former Trumpers. That should be terrifying to the president. Maybe he’ll actually keep his promises. Unlike Marco Rubio. Unlike the rest of them. Unlike Mitch McConnell. We have been betrayed over and over and over with presidents promising to do something about immigration. If he played us for suckers  oh  you will not see rage like you have seen.Immigration should be a bipartisan issue. I wish Trump would give something like a fireside chat. That’s what he should have done the day of his inauguration: Sit in the Oval Office and say  perfectly somberly and kindly: “I said some wild things during the campaign  it sounds like it’s divisive and angry  but now we need to bring the country together. We can disagree on other things  but one thing that ought to unite us is that we want to protect the people already here.” It’s a perfectly bipartisan issue.Bruni: I don’t want to debate immigration policy.Coulter: But that is the issue of the Former Trumpers. We are voting on the issues  not the man  and I think that is how you get away from tribal politics.Bruni: When you say you don’t care about the man  I immediately flashed on Stormy Daniels. You had a tweet just the other day in which you said: “Stormy says she and Trump had sex only once. I guess if you want the guy to screw you repeatedly you have to be one of his voters.” Does the Stormy Daniels story — does his behavior — bother you?Coulter: The fact that he’s totally walked away from his central campaign promises does change your opinion of things like that and how you evaluate them. I said throughout the campaign  “This is a one-time pass for a two-time divorcé.”Bruni: You came to prominence going after Bill Clinton for behavior like Trump’s  right?Coulter: No  that was quite different. That’s perjury and obstruction. You can’t have a legal system if people can just take an oath and just lie. It wasn’t just the philandering.In general  my sense of all of the claims about Trump and the women and the sexual misbehavior is that it is not true. I actually think he probably is a gentleman and is home at night at 9 p.m. sitting in bed eating cheeseburgers.Bruni: So many women have come forward and said he made advances that were unwanted.Coulter: That was very close to the election and they had many years to do that.Bruni: So you don’t believe them?Coulter: I tend to discount almost all of them. The Stormy Daniels case  you can go either way.Bruni: One more Stormy thing  another tweet of yours  you must have been watching the interview  and you picked out the quote  “You remind me of my daughter.” Please expand on why you tweeted that.Coulter: I was watching it live. I was in the gym so I could watch the basketball games. And I emailed it to about 100 of my friends before tweeting it  thinking  “Don’t tweet it  don’t tweet it.” And I just said  “Screw it  I’ve got to tweet it.” It’s just creepy.Bruni: He didn’t get the money for the wall. Tell me quickly what else is wrong with that spending bill.Coulter: I don’t know what more horrible thing you could come up with than violating your central campaign promise that became the chant and the theme of the campaign that he promised at every single rally. I mean  implementing the principles of “The Communist Manifesto” wouldn’t be more of a betrayal than that. It’s totally secondary to me  but it’s kind of hilarious that more money is being given to the Department of Health and Human Services than Barack Obama even requested in his budget.Bruni: I don’t think people understand what an intellectual godparent of Trumpism you are. Tell us about the beginning of Ann Coulter and Donald Trump.Coulter: This is a much happier part of the interview. First of all  much like trade  immigration wasn’t an issue that Trump just latched onto. Back in 2013  when Rubio was pushing his total-betrayal amnesty bill  Trump was tweeting like mad and I was re-tweeting him — and put the tweets in columns — saying: “G.O.P.  what are you doing  this is going to destroy the country. You don’t know who you are amnestying. You don’t know how many there are.” He had great tweets on the issue.“¡Adios  America!” came out two weeks before Trump came down the escalator. The book hadn’t even come out yet and I get an email from one of Trump’s people saying  “Mr. Trump would like a copy of your book.” I Fedexed it to his office. I have avoided seeking or requesting credit on this. His instincts were very good. I think he should take credit. His instincts are amazing.Bruni: At an Iowa campaign rally for Trump in August 2015  you said  “Since Donald Trump has announced that he is running for president  I felt like I’m dreaming.” Why?Coulter: Every day  you’d wake up and they’d be arguing about anchor babies and sanctuary cities. We never saw that before  not on Fox  not on MSNBC. You never saw people talking about it.Bruni: You have a strange dreamscape. My dreams don’t include anchor babies  but that’s just me. You’ve told me before that Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were nowhere to be found until Trump’s poll numbers rose. That’s your prompt to talk about two of your least favorite people in the administration.Coulter: They’re lovely people but  boy  I think Trump voters can say this was a bait-and-switch. There was no intimation during that 18 months of the most magnificent campaign I’ve ever seen that  “Don’t worry  I won’t go to the White House without Jared and Ivanka and I’ll be setting policy to make sure they lose no friends in the Hamptons.” I always suspected they were back in New York denying they were related to him.I’ve met Jared. He’s very nice. But if a relative of mine suddenly bought Ivanka’s fashion company  I wouldn’t demand to be the one put in charge of designing the clothes and figuring out if they are going to be made in Macau or India. Not my area of expertise.Bruni: So the two of them have no business being in the advisory roles  and in the proximity to him that they are.Coulter: Yeah. And I’m not telling tales out of school: As was accurately reported in Michael Wolff’s book  “Fire and Fury ” I’ve told the president this and I’ve tried to get everyone else around him to tell him this.There were all these rumors about how he was bringing his kids. They were there during the transition. Wait a second. A  they know nothing about politics. B  as far as we know  to this moment  they’ve been liberal Democrats. They’re very nice people but Bobby Kennedy was a nice person — and he knew a little bit more about politics — and when J.F.K. made Bobby his attorney general  the press pulled its nose out of J.F.K.’s butt just long enough to criticize him for that. We don’t like nepotism. We’re Americans. This is third-world behavior. Which is what I told the president.Bruni: You told him this directly?Coulter: I’ve leaked nothing from my conversations  interactions  ever. This one was leaked by someone else  and since there was only one other person on that phone call …. It was me and the president and this was during the transition.Bruni: And he said what in response?Coulter: First of all  I had tried to get this to him through  I think  Corey Lewandowski. Definitely Steve Bannon. Stephen Miller. Peter Thiel. I said  “You’ve got to tell him you can’t hire your kids.” And every one of them said  “That’s above my pay grade.” So when I talked to him  I said  “Apparently no one else will tell you this  but you can’t hire your kids.” And I went on quite a bit longer than that  that he was looking like Evita Perón.He does listen  contrary to what people say. He said  “You’re right  nobody else would tell me that.” So at the Wolff book party — and I didn’t leak anything to him — I said to Wolff  “I didn’t tell you anything  how did you know I had told him this? It had to be the president or someone the president told.” And he said: “Oh  yeah  it was the president. He was storming around the Oval Office  saying  ‘And then Ann Coulter told me ….’” So  yeah  he listens.Bruni: You implied that Trump was governing so that Jared and Ivanka wouldn’t lose their friends in the Hamptons. But he went for the Muslim ban. He backed out of the Paris climate accord.Coulter: That was in the first week. But from mostly  probably  the reporting of Maggie Haberman — she does seem to have an excellent pipeline to the Oval Office — it was Jared’s idea to fire James Comey. It was Jared’s idea to hire Anthony Scaramucci. At any point  does it dawn on someone  “Every time I take this guy’s advice  disaster ensues?” It doesn’t seem to be hitting home. Why? Because it’s a relative.Bruni: One of the things that most stunned me as his administration came together was he spent so much time during the campaign railing against Wall Street  fashioning himself as a populist. This was the richest cabinet  I think  in history.Coulter: I was terrified and I told them so. Is Trump the only person who didn’t know that generals are so P.C.? They are suck-ups. He’s not getting Patton. He’s getting Chihuahuas. He used to say  “I want General Patton.” Well  it’s not Patton anymore.Bruni: One month into Donald Trump’s presidency  you said  “So far  I give him an A-plus.”Coulter: Oh  I liked his tweets.Bruni: You were giving Donald Trump an A-plus on his presidency because you liked his tweets?Coulter: I think so.Bruni: By then he had hired a cabinet that you found abhorrent. By then he had brought Jared and Ivanka to Washington. But he’s still getting an A-plus? Even Harvard doesn’t have grade inflation like that.Coulter: I believe my columns gave more thoughtful reviews. I think I was being a little ironic and cheerleading there because I was obviously attacking him immediately in the columns.Bruni: What’s his grade today?Coulter: We’re halfway through the semester and he’s failing. He could still get ahead. There’s still a shot for extra credit.Bruni: Let me guess: It involves a wall.Coulter: There is one thing he promised every single day for 18 months. Don’t act like I’m the nut wanting a wall. That was the chant at every rally. I didn’t make this up.Bruni: But let’s be adults here. Was Mexico ever going to pay for it?Coulter: No. 1  his voters absolutely do not care.Bruni: He promised that as often as he promised the wall.Coulter: I know  but it was like me giving him an A-plus. It was just a fun chant. I promise you: We want a wall  we don’t care who pays for it. But it’s very easy: In 10 years  if we just stopped giving Mexico foreign aid  we’d pay for it.Bruni: Are you a Former Trumper?Coulter: He can still come back. If he builds the wall  he’ll be the Emperor God again. I’ll throw a huge party. I’ll start a committee to put him on Mount Rushmore. But right now  if I were a betting woman  I don’t think we’re getting a wall.Bruni: What the hell does Donald Trump believe in? What is his compass? I used to think it was applause  but now I think it’s incoherence. You’re the scholar of Donald Trump. Tell me what he believes in.Coulter: I really think in his heart of hearts he does believe in the #MAGA agenda. I think his Achilles’ heel is that he wants to be liked. For 18 months he didn’t want to be liked by cafe society  but starting Nov. 8  he just wants applause from The New York Times. It’s very odd how he’s always running to New York Times reporters and writers and not particularly giving interviews to the people  the broadcasters and the radio hosts  who supported him. Why is he calling it fake news when it’s all he wants to be on?Bruni: You told me he was going to prevail in the primaries and the general election. Look into the future now. When and how does this presidency end?Coulter: I really don’t know. He still could come back. He can build the wall. He’s commander in chief. Will he do it? I wouldn’t bet on it right now.Bruni: Will he be impeached?Coulter: That I don’t know. Things aren’t looking good for holding the House.Bruni: Will Republicans hold either the House or Senate?Coulter: Senate math suggests Republicans hold the Senate. If it is a blue wave  the Democrats take the House. I think they might not impeach him. They may think they can get more from this guy than they would under Hillary Clinton.Bruni: They may think he’s better taken advantage of than impeached?Coulter: Yeah. If they impeach him  I think Republicans might want to get rid of him. I think they might rather deal with Mike Pence and not have to be constantly asked by reporters about this and that tweet.Bruni: Does Trump have anywhere  politically  to go? Look at his loss of the popular vote. We’re talking about 77 000 votes in three states. I could argue it’s a fluke he was elected. If he pleases those who elected him  I’m not sure that he gets re-elected  but if he moves as far away from you as you say he has  I still don’t think he can get the people in the middle. Does he really have a political path to survival?Coulter: That’s a really good point. The hate for him on the left is visceral. Graydon Carter is never going to say  “Well  I have to admit he’s done something right.” The only way he has to go is to go back to the #MAGA agenda.Bruni: But I don’t think that’s enough either.Coulter: I disagree. I think it would be. A  it’s his only chance  although it may not help Jared and Ivanka be popular in the Hamptons. B  I think he can win independents over. He has not been a fascist. When a court unconstitutionally says he can’t ban immigrants on the basis of national security or what’s good for the country  he complies.Bruni: We have heard and we have written endlessly about Never Trumpers. What are Former Trumpers? If he loses you Former Trumpers permanently  what’s he left with?Coulter: This is not Never Trumpers. It was very easy to brush aside Jeb Exclamation Point. Charlie Sykes. Bill Kristol. The Former Trumpers are the ones who would die for Trump  who would defend him from anything  who did defend him and blew off the “Access Hollywood” tape — blew off everything. We kept coming back. He could sell Ivanka Trump merchandise from the Oval Office if he would just build the wall.If he doesn’t have us anymore — that’s what he should be worried about  because  you play those people for suckers? The ones who stood by him through thick and thin and thought this was finally something different? Former Trumpers should put the fear of God in him.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy CHOE SANG-HUNMARCH 30  2018
SEOUL  South Korea — South Korea settled disputes with the Trump administration over steel tariffs and the revision of a free-trade agreement this week. With those stumbling blocks cleared  it hoped the two governments could focus on the more pressing crisis of North Korea’s nuclear weapons.As it turned out  South Korea was celebrating too early.On Thursday  President Trump said he might postpone finalizing the trade agreement with South Korea  which he had earlier described as “a wonderful deal with a wonderful ally ” until he secured a deal in denuclearizing North Korea.“You know why?” he said. “Because it’s a very strong card.”By tying a trade deal with South Korea to progress in denuclearizing North Korea  Mr. Trump is showing how little direct leverage Washington has over the isolated  nuclear-armed North just as South Korea and the United States prepare for talks with Kim Jong-un  the North’s leader.Instead  analysts say  Mr. Trump has been left to exert leverage on South Korea  which is taking the lead in orchestrating the talks  and the South’s president  Moon Jae-in.Advertisement“Things are not going as Trump has wished for  so he is twisting South Korea’s arms so that Moon will work for the kind of results Washington wanted when he meets with Kim Jong-un ” said Koh Yu-hwan  a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul  the South Korean capital. “Like the businessman he is  Trump is telling Moon  ‘I will pay you — when you produce the results.’ ”Mr. Trump’s maneuvers against South Korea have hardened his image as a leader who is ready to threaten or sideline allies in order to push his agenda.AdvertisementPrevious United States administrations used the military alliance that South Korea depends on for its security as leverage in securing American interests in trade and other negotiations  but they did so in low-key negotiations  South Korean officials said. Mr. Trump has made much of that process public.“Trump does not separate security from trade; they are all part of his pack of cards  while Moon tended to see them as separate issues ” said Shim Sang-ryul  a professor of international trade at Kwangwoon University in Seoul.But Mr. Trump’s decision to link the trade deal with South Korea to a breakthrough in denuclearizing North Korea shows a growing unease in Washington  analysts said. Washington fears that Seoul might drift from their alliance and move closer to Beijing  while Mr. Trump feels his approach to North Korea is being undermined in the wake of a flurry of diplomatic initiatives by Mr. Kim in recent weeks  especially his meeting this week with China’s president  Xi Jinping  analysts said. (On Thursday  North Korea released an English-language version of a documentary of the trip.)When Mr. Kim began seeking talks this year after ratcheting up regional tensions with a string of nuclear weapons and intercontinental ballistic missile tests  United States officials argued that he had done so because of pressure from Mr. Trump  including the threat of sanctions.But analysts say that Mr. Kim had already been planning to seek talks at the end of a hurried effort to complete what he called “a state nuclear force” last year. Analysts say his goal was to enter negotiations with Washington with a much stronger hand than his father and predecessor  Kim Jong-il  had in the 1990s and 2000s.Adding to that  Mr. Kim’s decision to travel to Beijing to meet with Mr. Xi before his planned summit meetings with the South Korean and American presidents was a brilliant maneuver  analysts said.AdvertisementBy choosing Beijing for his first trip abroad as leader  Mr. Kim recommitted North Korea to the traditional — yet much frayed — Communist alliance with China. At the same time  Mr. Kim’s visit helped China reassert its role in diplomacy around denuclearizing North Korea  a process that has been dominated by South Korea and the United States in recent months. If China’s role on the Korean Peninsula grows bigger  it strengthens North Korea’s leverage in talks and helps China as well if a trade war with the United States comes to pass  said Professor Shim.Mr. Kim’s meeting with Mr. Xi has already complicated Mr. Trump’s calculations.China’s state news media reported that Mr. Kim had called for “phased  synchronized” moves toward denuclearizing his country — the same approach the North insisted on in past negotiations with Washington. In those talks  the North said it would take only incremental steps toward giving up its nuclear program  beginning with a freeze  and demanded that the United States offer simultaneous incentives. Those past discussions all eventually collapsed as Washington and Pyongyang accused each other of reneging on agreements.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Kim’s call for a phased approach raised the possibility of drawn out and uncertain negotiations  dimming the hopes for the so-called Libyan model of rapid dismantlement  which Mr. Trump and his new pick for national security adviser  John R. Bolton  prefer.A key problem for Mr. Trump is that South Korea sides with China in arguing that the Libyan model is unrealistic  championing an “action-for-action” phased approach for denuclearization. When Mr. Xi’s envoy  Yang Jiechi  visited Seoul this week  South Korea and China agreed to cooperate for a peaceful resolution of the North Korean crisis. On Friday  a senior aide for Mr. Moon told reporters that the North’s nuclear weapons program  which has been developing over the past 25 years  could not be dismantled “like you turn off your TV by pulling out the electricity cord.”Lee Jong-seok  a former South Korean unification minister  said  “The key will be how to persuade North Korea to take a couple or few early concrete steps early — for instance  measures concerning its nuclear test site or its ICBM production facilities — that would help convince the Americans that it is sincere about denuclearization.”We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy JOHN KOBLIN and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUMMARCH 29  2018
On the morning after the 2016 election  a group of nearly a dozen ABC executives gathered at their Burbank  Calif.  headquarters to determine what Donald J. Trump’s victory meant for the network’s future.“We looked at each other and said  ‘There’s a lot about this country we need to learn a lot more about  here on the coasts ’” Ben Sherwood  the president of Disney and ABC’s television group  said in an interview.They began asking themselves which audiences they were not serving well and what they could do to better live up to the company name — the American Broadcasting Company. By the meeting’s end  they had in place the beginnings of a revised strategy that led the network to reboot a past hit centered on a struggling Midwestern family  a show that had a chance to appeal to the voters who had helped put Mr. Trump in the White House.On Tuesday night  the strategy proved more successful than the executives had hoped: “Roseanne” premiered to the highest ratings for any network sitcom in almost four years.AdvertisementThe show’s approach to sociopolitical issues — its star and co-creator  Roseanne Barr  plays an unabashed Trump supporter who spars with her liberal sister  played by Laurie Metcalf — especially reverberated among heartland viewers. The top markets for the debut read like a political pollster’s red-state checklist: Cincinnati; Kansas City  Mo.; Tulsa  Okla. Liberal enclaves like New York and Los Angeles did not crack the top 20.AdvertisementChanning Dungey  the president of ABC Entertainment  said the success of “Roseanne” was a direct result of the post-Election Day initiative to pursue an audience that the network had overlooked.“We had spent a lot of time looking for diverse voices in terms of people of color and people from different religions and even people with a different perspective on gender ” Ms. Dungey said. “But we had not been thinking nearly enough about economic diversity and some of the other cultural divisions within our own country. That’s been something we’ve been really looking at with eyes open since that time.”As the Nielsen numbers for “Roseanne” rolled in  ABC executives went from gobsmacked — Mr. Sherwood said he thought the early figures he had seen were a mistake — to euphoric.“People gather round and they see themselves in this family ” Mr. Sherwood said. “It speaks to a large number of people in the country who don’t see themselves on television very often.”By Thursday  this dusted-off sitcom centered on a highly opinionated matriarch had become a flash point in the nation’s culture wars. It had also spurred a cathartic response from many conservatives  who counted its opening-night success as their own.Among those celebrating was President Trump  who called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the “huge” ratings. On Thursday  he gave a shout-out to the Emmy-winning star during a rally in Ohio.“Look at Roseanne! Look at her ratings!” President Trump told the crowd of union workers  adding: “They were unbelievable! Over 18 million people! And it was about us!”AdvertisementRight-wing pundits praised the show as a mic-drop moment for conservatives weary of being portrayed unflatteringly or ignored altogether on network shows. On Fox News  Sean Hannity congratulated her on her “massive audience ” and Laura Ingraham approvingly played a “Roseanne” clip  saying  “Funny what can happen when Hollywood makes programming that’s not condescending toward half the country.”On Thursday  via Twitter  Mr. Hannity invited Ms. Barr to guest-host his show. “DM me ” Ms. Barr replied.Ms. Barr  65  supported Mr. Trump in 2016  but she makes for an unlikely conservative standard-bearer: Aside from her support of same-sex marriage and abortion rights  she was once denounced by the elder President George Bush as “disgraceful” after delivering a lewd  off-key rendition of the national anthem at a 1990 baseball game.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.On television  however  she plays a grandmother who is worried about paying the bills and grappling with a grandson who prefers to wear girl’s clothing. The onscreen Roseanne makes for a sharp foil to Ms. Metcalf’s character  who wears a “nasty woman” T-shirt and accuses Trump supporters of “wrapping yourselves up in the flag and clinging to your guns.”“The show doesn’t advocate for Trump voters  but it respects them ” said Alex Castellanos  a veteran Republican strategist based in Florida. “Apparently  this is still news to people in the entertainment business  that there is an American working class.”For years  ABC focused on other demographic groups. With series like “The Bachelor ” “black-ish ” “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Modern Family ” the network’s lineup was notably diverse. But it was also geared toward upper-middle-class viewers  Ms. Dungey said.By November 2016  ABC was coming off a TV season when it had finished in last place among the four major broadcast networks  with little hope of escaping the ratings basement in the near future. Like other networks  it was also losing viewers to Netflix and other streaming platforms.The meeting that took place on the morning after Mr. Trump’s surprise victory led the network to reconsider its strategy. Mr. Sherwood summed up what was going through his mind that day: “Given the declines of broadcast television  the year-after-year declines  are we programming in a way that is turning people off?”In response  ABC decided to back the singing competition show “American Idol” less than two years after it had been canceled on Fox  its original network home.Advertisement“We went after it because that’s a show that  fundamentally  is about the American dream ” Mr. Sherwood said. “It’s about a girl with a cowboy hat and a boy with a banjo and people from small towns where music has saved their lives in different ways.”“Roseanne ” which had its first run on ABC from 1988 to 1997  was another prime candidate for a reboot. It was a top-rated comedy that had won its share of Emmys and Golden Globes — not to mention that the woman who played its title character had become a vocal Trump supporter.Even as the president portrayed the success of “Roseanne” as a win of his own  however  ABC executives and “Roseanne” producers rejected the notion that the show’s popularity was mainly because of its appeal to Trump supporters.“I would compare this to ‘All in the Family ’” said Tom Werner  an executive producer of “Roseanne” and other hit sitcoms like “The Cosby Show” and “3rd Rock From the Sun.” “A number of people watching ‘All in the Family’ said  ‘Archie’s a conservative and therefore it’s a show about a conservative.’ Well  it was made by Norman Lear.“Part of the reason the show is successful is because it taps into the frustration and disappointment that working-class people feel about the economy right now ” he continued. “But if you watch all the episodes  we don’t really mention politics as much as we did in the pilot.”Mr. Werner pointed out that “Roseanne” will deal with the opioid epidemic and immigration in its seven remaining episodes  adding that the president does not come up much as the show goes on.As a topical  working-class sitcom led by a Trump supporter  “Roseanne” is unique — for now. Its early ratings success is likely to spur copycats in Hollywood  which is not known for its high percentage of conservatives.“Money is the ideology of Hollywood ” said Martin Kaplan  director of the Norman Lear Center for media and society at the University of Southern California. “I can’t imagine an executive who would turn down something for ideological reasons that they think has a chance to do a good number.”A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Network Rediscovers Trump Country With Reboot of ‘Roseanne’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAYA SALAM and MATTHEW HAAGMARCH 29  2018
President Trump and his old friend David J. Pecker  whose company owns The National Enquirer  have long had a mutually beneficial relationship. Now that Mr. Trump is president  Mr. Pecker has showcased his access to him  including when he recently sought to do business with people in Saudi Arabia.Here are five times that Mr. Pecker and his company  American Media Inc.  protected  defended or championed Mr. Trump.Karen McDougal  a former Playboy model  recently filed a lawsuit against American Media  saying she wants to be free to speak about an affair she says she had with Mr. Trump over a decade ago. She said she signed a legal agreement with the company in 2016 that prevented her from talking about her alleged relationship with Mr. Trump.In her lawsuit  Ms. McDougal alleged that Mr. Trump’s lawyer  Michael D. Cohen  was secretly involved when Mr. Pecker’s company sought to silence her by buying the rights to her story in August 2016 for $150 000 but never publishing it. In the tabloid industry  that move is known as a “catch and kill.”AdvertisementMr. Cohen and American Media have denied the allegations. Mr. Trump’s representatives deny that the affair happened.AdvertisementIn the run-up to the 2016 presidential election  Mr. Trump was one of 17 candidates who vied to be the Republican candidate  and none of his opponents were safe from ridicule in The Enquirer.In October 2015  a headline called Ben Carson a “bungling surgeon.” The article said he had potentially “butchered one patient’s brain.” A month later  an article called him a “disgraced doctor” with a “violent past.”In June of that year  an article claimed that Jeb Bush  the former Florida governor  had cheated on his wife  citing unnamed reports that linked Mr. Bush to a “Playboy bunny-turned-lawyer.”Hillary Clinton  the Democratic presidential nominee and a favorite target of Mr. Trump  took the brunt of the scorn. A September 2015 article  using information from “sources ” said the “desperate and deteriorating 67-year-old won’t make it to the White House — because she’ll be dead in six months.”In August 2016  she fired back at Mr. Trump and what she called “fringe media.” Mrs. Clinton said  “This is what happens when you treat The National Enquirer like gospel.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.The 2016 election is over  but the criticism of Mrs. Clinton has continued. In February 2018  an Enquirer cover story claimed she was part of a conspiracy: “Obama & Hillary Ordered F.B.I. to Spy on Trump!”For years  Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked his predecessor  Barack Obama  and The Enquirer is no different.In January  an Enquirer headline read  “Barack Obama’s Russian Spy Inside the White House.”In February 2017  days after Michael T. Flynn resigned as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser  the tabloid claimed that Mr. Obama had a secret plot to impeach Mr. Trump. And as recently as March 2017 the tabloid continued to claim that Mr. Obama  who was born in Hawaii  was foreign born  even though Mr. Trump had since let go of the false birther theory that he long promoted.AdvertisementThe National Enquirer and its parent company have not only helped the president by denigrating others  but also repeatedly praised Mr. Trump  his decisions and his character.In March 2016  for the first time in its 90 years  The Enquirer endorsed a candidate for president — Donald J. Trump.While Ms. McDougal and a pornographic-film star  Stephanie Clifford  who is known professionally as Stormy Daniels  have come forward and said they have had affairs with the president  The Enquirer recently ran a favorable cover that blared: “Donald & Melania Fight Back! Exposing the Lies  Leaks & Intimidation. How They’ll Crush Their Enemies!”Mr. Pecker visited the White House in July 2017 and took along with him a special guest  a French businessman who advises one of Saudi Arabia’s richest men. Through an Oval Office visit and at dinner with Mr. Trump  Mr. Pecker showcased his access to the president — and word got back to Saudi Arabia.Several months later  Mr. Pecker traveled to Saudi Arabia. In January  he sought Saudi investors to help bankroll a possible acquisition of Time magazine  according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. American Media disputed that. As Mohammed bin Salman  the crown prince of Saudi Arabia  arrived this month for a tour of the United States  Mr. Pecker’s company published a 97-page magazine about Saudi Arabia that glosses over troubling details about the kingdom.There is no mention of the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen  human rights concerns or the crown prince’s arrest last fall of many extended royals.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Ana SwansonCHICAGO — If North America were a factory  Union Pacific would be its biggest conveyor belt.Based in Omaha  the company operates the largest rail network on the continent  a conduit that provides us with cereal  lumber  car parts and pretty much everything that touches our lives. That makes the railroad a real-time barometer of the fluctuations in global trade — a physical manifestation of how President Trump’s agenda to remake the rules of commerce will play out.Roughly 40 percent of the goods that Union Pacific moves touch an international border at some point in their journey  putting the railroad at the center of the global tensions that have arisen as the administration prepares to impose tariffs on goods from China and steel and aluminum from around the world. Seventy percent of rail freight between the United States and Mexico travels on Union Pacific trains  meaning the outcome of the tense renegotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement will shape the company’s future.“At its guts  a railroad like Union Pacific is built on people consuming stuff  industry consuming stuff  and trade flows ” said Lance Fritz  Union Pacific’s chief executive. “When those are happening and growing  we thrive. And all of that potentially gets impacted by getting Nafta wrong or the United States exiting Nafta.”These global forces all converge outside Chicago  where six of the seven largest railroads operating in the United States meet  including Union Pacific  Norfolk Southern and Canadian National. Here  roughly 300 workers move containers of barbecue grills  soybeans and socks from trains to trucks. Some of those trucks head out on the nearby tangle of interstate highways for multiday trips across the country. Some drive for Rust Belt factories or nearby warehouses for Walmart and Dollar Tree.Union Pacific was created in 1862  when Abraham Lincoln ordered the company to open the American West by helping to build the first transcontinental railroad. Over the decades since  the company chiseled new rail lines out of impassable terrain and swallowed up its competitors. Today  the company’s trains run on tracks it owns throughout 23 states west of the Mississippi River  and on partner networks in the Eastern United States  Canada and Mexico.The company’s financial history is inextricably tied to the country’s economic ebbs and flows. Union Pacific saw its beef shipments fall in 2003  after an outbreak of mad cow disease in the United States prompted China to ban imports of American beef. In 2012  a drought shrank the company’s wheat shipments and its revenues from agriculture.In 1994  the introduction of Nafta slashed tariffs on products and encouraged companies to invest in supply chains stretching across borders — increasing rail traffic around North America. The year after Nafta went into effect  Mexico privatized its railroads  creating private commercial partners south of the border.In 1999  Union Pacific had $700 million in business going to and from Mexico. Today  that figure has ballooned to more than $2.2 billion  with goods like grain and auto parts going into Mexico and finished cars  avocados and televisions coming back.The company moves more than 100 carloads of beer from Mexico to the United States every day  with each carrying enough beer to provide an American consumer with a daily six-pack for 43 years.To satisfy a changing diet  Union Pacific is introducing more refrigerated cars to carry meat into Mexico. The company is also investing $550 million on a massive rail yard in Texas that will help serve as a conduit for cross-border trade.Now the fate of Nafta — and Union Pacific’s business — is up in the air. All three countries are locked in contentious talks. American trade negotiators have said they believe they are close to completing a deal  though Mr. Trump continues to threaten to withdraw from the pact.“Effectively  it’s factory North America  and the administration is threatening to build a wall in the middle of the factory ” said Emily Blanchard  an associate professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College who studies trade.Mr. Fritz has lobbied hard to preserve Nafta  submitting comments to the government about the pact’s importance  writing opinion pieces and meeting with members of both Congress and the Trump administration. The company is exposed to almost every change the president has proposed  like requiring more of an automobile to be made in the United States and weakening the systems for settling disputes between countries.“Capital investment is the lifeblood of an economy ” Mr. Fritz said. He added that the Trump administration’s proposals would be “the equivalent of killing foreign investment in our economies.”The railroad is also bracing for tariffs on steel and aluminum that went into effect March 23  as well as a new round of coming levies on products imported from China.The railroad could see business pick up if American mills start cranking out more metals as foreign competition ebbs — or it could face a decline from industries  like automobiles  that will see their steel and aluminum costs rise. If the Trump administration follows through on tariffs on Chinese products  the tariffs will raise costs and slow sales for a wide variety of goods on the shelves of Walmart and Target.And if China and other countries retaliate against these trade measures by making it more expensive for American companies to sell products like soybeans  pork and whiskey overseas  as they have threatened to  that  too  would mean less cargo for Union Pacific.The company expects its own costs to increase as a result of the tariffs. Union Pacific uses American steel in its railroad cars  locomotives and some of its tracks. But on its most heavily trafficked lines — like its main east-west lines that run from Omaha to San Francisco and California to Texas — it opts for more expensive  ultra-hard rail made by Japan’s Nippon Steel.While many American allies were granted exemptions from the steel tariffs  Japan so far has not. That Japanese steel  which Union Pacific said is not matched in the United States  is now subject to a 25 percent tariff when it enters the country. Union Pacific is planning to ask the government for a special exemption for the product.While Mr. Fritz said he understood the administration’s desire to ensure that trade is fair  he doesn’t believe tariffs are the answer.“In general  they’re going to raise the cost of production  or directly raise the cost to consumers ” he said. “So neither is a good thing for the economy.”Ana Swanson is a trade reporter in the Washington Bureau. She previously worked at The Washington Post  where she covered trade  the Fed and the economy.  @AnaSwansonAdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS