AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and JIM TANKERSLEYMARCH 29  2018
RICHFIELD  Ohio — President Trump heralded a new trade agreement with South Korea at his first public appearance in nearly a week on Thursday  but then immediately suggested that he might delay finalizing it while negotiating with North Korea over its nuclear program.“I may hold it up until after a deal is made with North Korea ” Mr. Trump said  immediately after celebrating the new agreement. “Does everybody understand that? You know why  right? You know why? Because it’s a very strong card.”He added  “We’ll probably hold that deal up for a little while  see how it all plays out.”It was unclear what leverage Mr. Trump believed he could gain in the North Korea talks by delaying the deal with the South. The move could be an attempt by Mr. Trump to prod President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to hold a firm line with North Korea when talks begin over its nuclear program. Raj Shah  a White House spokesman  said in a statement that South Korea and the United States had reached an agreement “in principle.”“The president  taking into account all relevant considerations — including negotiations with North Korea — will determine the best time to sign a finalized agreement on behalf of the United States ” he said.AdvertisementBut Mr. Trump’s comments seemed to undercut a weeklong White House effort to promote the agreement. And they were in keeping with the at-times confusing tone of Mr. Trump’s speech at a muddy-floored training center for union workers here in this Cleveland suburb: His appearance was billed as an attempt to promote his infrastructure plan  but Mr. Trump addressed it only briefly near the end of his remarks  and said it was unlikely to pass soon.AdvertisementAfter a week marked by persistent scandals and high-profile staff departures  policy was not at the forefront of the president’s mind. Mr. Trump seemed intently focused on delivering his own progress report to supporters on a range of red-meat issues  including his zeal for improving border security  his promise to construct a border wall with Mexico  his administration’s efforts to roll back what he called “job killing” regulations and his thwarting of Democrats.“Really  I have gotten done much more than I promised ” Mr. Trump said. “We did a lot of things I didn’t even promise.”In the driving rain  Mr. Trump made his way to the training center  where he had been scheduled to sell an ambitious plan that would try to leverage $200 billion in federal spending to generate $1.5 trillion in total spending on projects such as tunnels  bridges and highways. White House officials had framed the event as a ramp-up  but this conflicted with the president’s decision to say he would push the plan to next year  declaring that he did not expect it to pass at least until after the November midterm elections.Also curiously  Mr. Trump spent little time on the trade deal struck with South Korea this week  which had been a win for his administration. That continued a relatively muted celebration: The announcement of that agreement’s details came not from Mr. Trump or his White House  but from South Korean officials; Trump administration officials unveiled the plan days later in a conference call with reporters.Instead  Mr. Trump disparaged a previous version of a South Korea trade agreement as a “horror show” and a “Hillary Clinton special.” He mused to the crowd that he might hold up finalizing the deal while he pursues planned talks with North Korea.“Certainly  the rhetoric has calmed down just a little bit  would you say?” Mr. Trump asked the crowd. “We’ll see how it all turns out.”Mr. Trump seemed to veer off script in other areas as well. At one point  he suggested that he planned to pull American troops out of Syria  where they have aided a military campaign that has recaptured the vast majority of the territory once controlled by the Islamic State  or ISIS. “We’re knocking the hell out of ISIS ” he said. “We’ll be coming out of Syria  like  very soon. Let the other people take care of it now.”Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As the crowd applauded  he added: “Very soon  very soon we’re coming out. We’re going to have 100 percent of the caliphate  as they call it — sometimes referred to as ‘land’ — taking it all back quickly  quickly.”AdvertisementThe comment seemed in conflict with plans by his national security team to keep a small force in place. As recently as Tuesday  Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said that while American forces were no longer in “an offensive effort on the ground” and had “drawn off slightly” to avoid accidental conflict with Russian troops  they continued to play a role. “We continue the operations in Syria ” he said.Some foreign policy specialists said a complete withdrawal of American troops from Syria would leave a dangerous void. “If we’re pulling those troops out  we’re ceding the remnants of Syria to the Russians and the Iranians and the other actors  which actually I would argue would be a big victory for Russia ” said Jamie M. Fly  a Republican scholar at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.Mr. Trump eventually focused on infrastructure on Thursday  zeroing in on his plan to speed up permitting. But the subject and timing of the president’s focus on his plan  announced in February  are curious. Congressional Republicans have not shown much appetite for taking up the infrastructure package  and neither have Democrats  who prefer proposals with much more federal spending.Mr. Trump acknowledged some of that reality in his remarks.“I don’t think you’re going to get Democrat support very much ” he said. “You’re probably going to have to wait until after the election.”Administration officials have not mounted any sort of effort  in public or private  that matches the scale of the pressure campaign they employed before the passage of Mr. Trump’s signature tax cut package last year. Perhaps the most prominent advocate of the infrastructure proposal  Gary D. Cohn  recently left his post as director of the National Economic Council. His successor  Larry Kudlow  is less enthusiastic about increases in federal infrastructure spending.The administration envisions states  local governments and the private sector contributing the bulk of the funds  a recipe that experts doubt would result in anywhere close to the targeted level of investment.Richard Trumka  the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.  which has lobbied for a large infrastructure bill  said he was skeptical that the president’s visit would spur any action.“He and Congress didn’t blink whenever they shelled out a trillion and a half dollars in tax giveaways for the rich ” Mr. Trumka said  “but we haven’t seen a nickel yet for infrastructure. He can talk about it forever  but he’s got to do something.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York  the minority leader  echoed that sentiment on Thursday. “Democrats are eager to work with the administration on infrastructure ” he said  “but there’s been a lack of seriousness on this issue from the White House.”Katie Rogers reported from Richfield  and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.A version of this article appears in print on March 30  2018  on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Praise for Trade Deal  Then Trump Suggests That He Might Delay It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN and PATRICK HEALYMARCH 28  2018
President Trump made a personal phone call on Wednesday to a political supporter with a huge megaphone — Roseanne Barr.Mr. Trump called Ms. Barr to congratulate her on the revival of her comedy  “Roseanne ” and to thank her for her support.The call was confirmed by Sarah Huckabee Sanders  the White House press secretary.The president  an obsessive about how TV shows perform  was enthralled by the “huge” ratings “Roseanne” had received  said a person familiar with the call. The show’s first episode  broadcast Tuesday evening on ABC  averaged 18.2 million viewers.“Roseanne ” featuring a working-class family of five and assorted relatives  returned to the air this week more than two decades after it ended its run. The lead actress’s character plays a backer of Mr. Trump. (Roseanne’s TV sister  Jackie Harris  by contrast  supports Hillary Clinton  though ultimately voted for Jill Stein.)What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Barr herself has been a vocal defender of Mr. Trump.In an interview with The New York Times published Tuesday  Ms. Barr said that she decided to turn her character  Roseanne Conner  into a Trump supporter because she felt it was an “accurate portrayal” of the political preferences of many working-class Americans.Advertisement“I just wanted to have that dialogue about families torn apart by the election and their political differences of opinion and how we handle it ” she said. “I thought that this was an important thing to say at this time.”AdvertisementMs. Barr defended the president at several points in the interview  objecting to a suggestion that he opposes many of the views that she and Roseanne Conner have espoused over the years  like support for abortion rights  same-sex marriage and organized labor.Mr. Trump used to back abortion rights before running for president as a Republican  but he has never supported same-sex marriage.“I think he voices them quite well ” she said of the stances that the president shares with her — and her character. She insisted that Mr. Trump favored same-sex marriage  even though he has never endorsed its legalization.“He has said it several times  you know  that he’s not homophobic at all ” she said.Ms. Barr did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Wednesday night.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Former Vice President Joe Biden regrets saying he'd "beat the hell" out of President Donald Trump if they were in high school for how he treats women.In a "Pod Save America" interview released Wednesday  the Democrat said "I shouldn't have said what I said."At a University of Miami rally against sexual assault last week  Biden cited lewd comments that Republican candidate Trump made in a 2005 "Access Hollywood" tape about grabbing women without their permission.The 75-year-old made similar comments in the closing days of the 2016 campaign.Trump tweeted: "Crazy Joe Biden is trying to act like a tough guy."Biden said he should not have brought it up again. He said "I don't want to get down in the mosh pit with this guy."AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  5:24 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Pentagon said Thursday that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has talked with President Donald Trump about the possibility that the Pentagon could fund the long-promised border wall with Mexico.Chief Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said the two "talked about the proposal  potentially." But she said she didn't know when the conversation occurred.White said that securing the nation is of paramount importance to Mattis.When asked if paying $25 billion for the wall might hurt Mattis' key priority of rebuilding the military  White said the two agree that the U.S. military must stay the most lethal in the world.Trump recently tweeted that building "a great Border Wall" is "all about National Defense" and he called to "Build WALL through M!" — the military.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear  Nick Wingfield and Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — President Trump escalated his attack on Amazon on Thursday  saying in an early-morning tweet that the online retail behemoth does not pay enough taxes — and strongly suggesting that he may use the power of his office to rein in the nation’s largest e-commerce business.Mr. Trump accused Amazon  one of the country’s most recognizable and successful brands  of putting thousands of local retailers out of business and said the company was using the United States Postal Service as its “Delivery Boy.”The president has lashed out publicly against the giant company and its chief executive  Jeff Bezos  on Twitter more than a dozen times since 2015. And privately  people close to him said  Mr. Trump repeatedly brings up his disdain for the company  often set off by his anger at negative stories in The Washington Post  which is owned by Mr. Bezos.By focusing on the threat to small businesses  Mr. Trump has touched on the unease of Amazon’s disruptive force. The company has changed industries as varied as publishing  groceries and health care. That has helped the company grow to be worth more than $700 billion  but it has also made it a convenient target.The president has little clear authority to take action against the company. Some Amazon critics have suggested antitrust actions against the company  but the moves would need to come from the independent Federal Trade Commission or the Justice Department  where officials have promised to keep politics out of its corporate competition cases.Lindsay Walters  a White House spokeswoman  told reporters on Thursday that “the president has expressed his concerns with Amazon. We have no actions at this time.”Still  Mr. Trump’s willingness to again single out Amazon and characterize it as a tax cheat and a job killer is a remarkable use of the presidential bully pulpit that could have serious implications for the company even without any formal moves by the federal government.His comments have already spooked investors  sending Amazon stocks tumbling Wednesday after an article on the website Axios about his anger toward the company. The stock fell further after his tweet on Thursday  though prices rebounded later.The tech industry is increasingly on the defensive. Facebook is under attack in Washington for its handling of personal data and the social network’s role in the 2016 election. And the recent death of a pedestrian by a self-driving car has renewed criticism of Uber.“The general principle that I know deeply concerns the president is that we need to live in a world where the government sets a level playing field between internet vendors and mom and pop stores ” Kevin Hassett  the chair of the president’s council on economic advisers  said Thursday on Fox Business.Drew Herdener  an Amazon spokesman  declined to comment.Several current and former officials said that Mr. Trump regularly conflates Amazon with The Post. Mr. Bezos owns the paper privately  separate from his role at Amazon.Brad Parscale  the president’s 2020 campaign manager  on Thursday channeled Mr. Trump’s anger about The Post in a tweet of his own  saying: “Do not forget to mention that @amazon has probably 10x the data on every American that @facebook does. All that data and own a political newspaper  The @washingtonpost. Hmm…”And far-right  conspiracy-fanning websites — some of which Mr. Trump is known to read — have for months stoked the idea that The Post is in cahoots with the C.I.A. because the agency contracts with Amazon to provide cloud-based data storage. Last November  a headline at one of those sites  Infowars  said: “BEZOS & DEEP STATE UNITE: AMAZON LAUNCHES CLOUD SERVICE FOR CIA.”The Post declined to comment.One person close to Mr. Trump  who asked for anonymity to discuss private discussions in the Oval Office  said that the president mused about the issue of Amazon and taxes at least a half-dozen times in the last six months. The president has repeatedly claimed that Amazon costs the Postal Service money even though officials have explained to him that is not the case. Amazon has said that the Postal Regulatory Commission  which oversees the service  has consistently found that its contracts with Amazon are profitable.People close to Mr. Trump say the president is convinced that Amazon unfairly benefits from tax laws. The internet giant collects sales taxes on its own products in all 45 states that have one  but third-party vendors who sell products on the site often do not collect sales tax  a fact that rivals say is unfair. In addition  some municipalities complain that the company does not collect local taxes.In April  the Supreme Court will hear arguments in an case on whether to allow states to impose sales taxes on all internet sales. Many observers believe the justices are poised to reverse its 1992 ruling that exempted online retailers with no physical presence in a state.Mr. Trump hears the sales tax complaints frequently during visits with his wealthy friends at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida  and in meetings at the White House  several aides and associates said. One person familiar with his thinking said that the president believes many of his core supporters are hurt when Amazon disrupts the local businesses where they live.The president’s critique is shared by some of his usual adversaries in the Democratic Party. Like many of Mr. Trump’s wealthy Republican friends  Representative Keith Ellison  Democrat of Minnesota  has been critical of Amazon’s growing power in the marketplace.“The Trump administration should rein in giants like Amazon because they have an unfair stranglehold on the competition  not because the president has a personal feud with a company’s C.E.O. ” Mr. Ellison said in a statement on Thursday.There was also some irony in the criticism coming from Mr. Trump  who has boasted about his dexterity in avoiding paying taxes. “This is the guy who said that not paying taxes ‘makes me smart ’” said Matt Gardner  senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy  a nonpartisan research organization.How the president could slow Amazon  beyond take to Twitter or complain about the company in speeches  is unclear.If Mr. Trump were to pressure the Justice Department to pursue antitrust enforcement action against Amazon  it would be a sharp break from tradition  experts say  because the White House has kept a far distance from those cases for decades.“It would be a gross violation and abuse of our due process ” said Diana Moss  president of the American Antitrust Institute.But the president has repeatedly crossed lines that his predecessors have observed. In the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election  he has pressured Justice Department officials to investigate his Democratic rivals and to abandon the investigation of himself and his associates.AT&T and Time Warner have suggested Mr. Trump played a role in the Justice Department’s decision to block the companies’ $85.4 billion media merger. Makan Delrahim  the head of antitrust at the Justice Department  has said under oath in Congress that he would not allow the White House to impact his decisions over that merger or any other cases.Mr. Trump also surprised antitrust experts with his swift decision to block Broadcom’s merger with Qualcomm earlier this month  after a review by a government panel on foreign investments. The president has direct authority to block a merger with foreign companies that pose national security concerns.Amazon has tried  through lobbyists and outside consultants  to meet with administration officials and members of Congress to counter arguments about the company’s tax collection and its relationship with the Postal Service.The size of company’s lobbying staff has ballooned in recent years  according to public filings  focusing largely on drones  transportation  taxes and cybersecurity. It has hired antitrust consultants over the past year.In 2015  shortly after Mr. Trump started his attacks against the company  Mr. Bezos joked on Twitter about sending the candidate into space on a rocket made by Blue Origin  a space exploration start-up Mr. Bezos owns.But when Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee and then president  Mr. Bezos and Amazon stopped responding to his attacks  seeing little upside in a public quarrel with him  according to two people briefed on the decision. The people  who spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversations were private  said that these days  Mr. Trump’s tweets were more likely to prompt eye-rolling inside the company than any serious effort at crisis control.Michael D. Shear and Cecilia Kang reported from Washington and Nick Wingfield from Seattle. Katie Rogers and Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  3:27 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  The Latest on "Roseanne" and President Donald Trump (all times local):3:20 p.m.Roseanne Barr is reveling in President Donald Trump's congratulatory call after her sitcom returned to impressive ratings.Barr posted Thursday on Twitter that it was a "thrill" to get a phone call from Trump. He's the fifth U.S. president she's received support from  Barr says.In another post  Barr says she feels humbled to consider the leaders she's met and talked with  including Democrats Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton and Republicans George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush.__3:15 p.m.President Donald Trump says he called Roseanne Barr following the debut of her ABC sitcom reboot  which drew 18.4 million viewers.AdvertisementBarr supports Trump  as does her character on the revamped ABC program.Trump said during an appearance Thursday in Ohio that he telephoned Barr. And he exclaimed  "Look at her ratings!"AdvertisementBarr told ABC's "Good Morning America" in a telephone interview Thursday that the call was "pretty exciting."Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Trump is a former reality TV star who paid close attention to his ratings as host of "The Apprentice" on NBC.___2 p.m.President Donald Trump reached out to Roseanne Barr to congratulate her after the debut of her ABC sitcom reboot drew 18.4 million viewers.Speaking by telephone Thursday on ABC's "Good Morning America " Barr said the call was "pretty exciting." She described the exchange as a "friendly conversation about working in television and ratings."Barr  who said she has known Trump for years  is a political supporter of the president's. Her revamped sitcom tackles current politics  with Roseanne embracing Trump and clashing with her sister  a staunch opponent.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  3:03 P.M. E.D.T.
PORTLAND  Maine —  Republican Gov. Paul LePage  who's known for his brash comments  called the federal judge who allowed a lawsuit against President Donald Trump an "imbecile." Four times  no less.LePage hurled the insult Wednesday after learning that U.S. District Judge Peter Messitte in Maryland allowed the lawsuit accusing Trump  a Republican  of receiving unconstitutional gain to move forward.Maryland and the District of Columbia accused the president of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution. The provision bans the president from accepting gifts from foreign governments as well as U.S. states.The judge limited the lawsuit to the president's involvement with the Trump International Hotel in Washington.AdvertisementThe judge cited the Maine governor's stay at the Trump hotel as an example of how government officials could feel obliged or coerced to stay there "in order to help them obtain federal favors."AdvertisementLePage's office adamantly rejected any suggestion of a quid pro quo. "The governor chooses hotels based upon several factors including price  availability and security " press secretary Julie Rabinowitz said.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.LePage  meanwhile  called the judge an imbecile four times in brief remarks to WGME-TV and said he hoped his insults carried to the judge's chambers."I didn't realize I could buy the president so cheap  a night in his hotel and he's in my back pocket " LePage said. "That's all I'm going to say. The judge that did that is an imbecile!"He went on to use the word three more times.The judge declined comment on Thursday.LePage's stay at Trump International in February 2017 was first reported by the Portland Press Herald after a public records request for the travel receipts of LePage and his state police security detail.LePage's group spent four nights there while LePage met with administration officials and testified against a national monument designation in Maine that's under review by the Trump administration.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump was voicing concern about Amazon.com Inc when he commented about the company on Twitter on Thursday  but the administration has no action dealing with the company at this time  the White House said."The president has expressed his concerns with Amazon " White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters told reporter on Air Force One en route to Ohio  where Trump was delivering a speech. "We have no actions at this time."Trump accused Amazon.com on Thursday of not paying enough tax  taking advantage of the U.S. postal system and putting small retailers out of business  but did not present any evidence to back up his criticisms or suggest any specific actions he planned to take.  (Reporting by Steve Holland; Writing by David Alexander; Editing by Susan Thomas)AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 29  2018  6:16 P.M. E.D.T.
NEW YORK —  Attorney Gloria Allred says she's no longer representing a former contestant on "The Apprentice" who has accused President Donald Trump of unwanted kissing and groping.Allred is famous for advocating for women who accuse powerful men of sexual harassment. She didn't disclose a reason for her split with Summer Zervos.The decision came days after a New York court said Zervos could proceed with a defamation lawsuit against the Republican president.Zervos says Trump hurt her reputation by publicly denying her claims that he subjected her to unwanted advances.Most of the legal work in the lawsuit was being performed by a different attorney  Mariann Wang  who continues to represent Zervos.Allred said her firm's withdrawal "has nothing to do with the merits of her case against President Trump."We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 29  2018  5:03 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump ousted Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin on Wednesday in response to heavy criticism and nominated his personal physician  Rear Admiral Ronny Jackson  to replace him in the latest turnover among Trump's team.White House officials  speaking on condition of anonymity  said Shulkin had become a distraction due to a constant wave of speculation about his future and said he would be leaving in the next day or two. They said an undersecretary at the Department of Defense  Robert Wilkie  will be the acting secretary.Shulkin had drawn fire for a damning report from the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs. It found that during a trip to London and Denmark he improperly accepted tickets to the Wimbledon tennis tournament and his chief of staff made false statements so Shulkin's wife could travel at government expense.One official said the criticism of Shulkin was "making it harder for him to carry out the duties of secretary of the VA  which is something the president has made clear is a big priority for him."AdvertisementJackson  a rear admiral of the U.S. Navy  has been working as a presidential physician since the George W. Bush administration  and has been the lead doctor monitoring Trump's health since Trump became president.AdvertisementJackson gave Trump a clean bill of health early this year after giving the president a physical. He put him on a diet to lose some weight and directed him to get some exercise. Aides said Trump has been eating more fish and fewer cheeseburgers lately.A Texas native who has been on active duty since 1995  Jackson served during the U.S.-led war in Iraq as an emergency medicine physician in Taqaddum  Iraq."Admiral Jackson is highly trained and qualified and as a service member himself  he has seen firsthand the tremendous sacrifice our veterans make and has a deep appreciation for the debt our great country owes them " Trump said.A White House official said Trump warmed to Jackson and had been aware that Shulkin had sought to make Jackson the VA undersecretary last year."The president wants somebody who gives him the best possible care to go over and give that same care to the veterans. That's how strongly he feels about getting them represented properly " the official said.Trump said he appreciated Shulkin's work  including passage of the VA Accountability Act."He has been a great supporter of veterans across the country and I am grateful for his service " Trump said in a statement.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.U.S. Representative Phil Roe  a Republican who chairs the House Committee on Veterans Affairs  said he hated to see Shulkin go but respected Trump's decision."At the end of the day  cabinet secretaries serve at the pleasure of the president " he said.Will Fischer  director of government relations for the VoteVets lobby group  said his group hopes Jackson will oppose any attempt to privatize the VA or its health services  a concept that Republicans talk about occasionally.Advertisement"If Dr. Jackson can do that  immediately  he will do a lot to help his chances at confirmation " Fischer said.The VA oversees healthcare and benefits going to roughly 20 million U.S. military veterans. The Veterans Health Administration  the largest integrated healthcare system in the United States  provides care at more than 1 200 facilities  including 170 VA Medical Centers  to more than 9 million veterans.Trump praised Shulkin as "fantastic" when he chose him to head the VA in January 2017. Trump  who promised improved veterans' care during his presidential campaign  last year said the department had made "tremendous progress" under Shulkin.But support for him at the White House eroded quickly in recent weeks as Trump grew weary of the drumbeat of negative headlines about him.Shulkin said after the release of the inspector general's report that he would comply with its recommendations  including reimbursing the government for his wife's $4 312 airfare and paying his friend for the Wimbledon tickets. The department announced two days after the report was issued that Shulkin's chief of staff  Vivieca Wright Simpson  would retire.Shulkin joins a long list of senior officials who have either resigned or been fired since Trump took office in January 2017. Others include Secretary of State Rex Tillerson  Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price  FBI chief James Comey and FBI No. 2 Andrew McCabe  Trump's chief strategist Steve Bannon  national security advisers H.R. McMaster and Michael Flynn  White House chief of staff Reince Priebus  communications directors Hope Hicks and Anthony Scaramucci  and economic adviser Gary Cohn.(Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Leslie Adler and James Dalgleish)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »