AdvertisementBy KATIE ROGERS and KENNETH P. VOGELMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump kept a relatively low profile and did not make any public appearances on Tuesday  but emerged for a rare evening trip outside the White House to meet with deep-pocketed donors at a real estate developer’s home in Virginia.Mr. Trump  who usually prefers a steak served at his own hotel if he leaves the confines of the White House at night  traveled to the McLean  Va.  home of Giuseppe Cecchi  according to a person with knowledge of the president’s plans. Mr. Cecchi is a loyalist who previously hosted Mr. Trump for a $10 000-a-couple fund-raising dinner in the final weeks of the 2016 presidential campaign.Since arriving back in Washington on Sunday from his Florida estate  Mr. Trump’s schedule showed no public appearances and he kept his usual tweeting to a minimum.He has opted instead to leave it to his aides to field questions about a continuing investigation into his campaign’s contact with Russia  allegations by a pornographic actress that his lawyer paid her to stay silent about an affair  a move to expel 60 Russian diplomats and his administration’s support for adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census.AdvertisementThe White House declined to offer additional information about the dinner  but stressed that it was not a fund-raiser.Advertisement“Tonight  the president will be having dinner with a group of supporters at a private residence in Virginia ” said Lindsay Walters  a deputy White House press secretary. “This dinner is not a fund-raiser. No funds have been solicited.”It was the second time this month that Mr. Trump traveled to a private home to meet with donors. Financial executives  an oil billionaire and the president’s oldest son  Donald Trump Jr.  also attended the dinner at the home of a prominent lawyer.Even if no funds are raised at Tuesday’s dinner  it is part of a series of events intended to cultivate donors for two groups created to back Mr. Trump — America First Policies  a nonprofit formed to support his agenda  and America First Action  a “super PAC” that is supporting the campaigns of his allies and eventually his re-election campaign.The groups  which are seeking to raise $100 million this year  have hosted a series of events featuring Mr. Trump and top administration officials  including Vice President Mike Pence.Earlier on Tuesday  Mr. Pence headlined an “America First” rally in Fargo  N.D.“They’re trying to rally people around the tax cuts  and show how they have impacted local communities ” said Dan K. Eberhart  an Arizona oil investor and Republican donor who is an adviser to America First Policies and who attended the Fargo event.Headed into the 2018 midterm elections  Republicans are mostly facing a treacherous landscape in which they fear that Mr. Trump could be a liability in suburban districts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.America First intends to help balance the playing field  partly by dispatching administration officials into areas that Mr. Trump won handily in 2016  and partly by raising money from wealthy supporters to fund ads bolstering Republicans.The involvement of Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence is considered a key to the fund-raising efforts of the groups.AdvertisementAmerica First Policies and America First Action are overseen by the veteran Republican operative Brian O. Walsh.“America First Action is extremely honored to host President Trump as our special guest  along with supporters and friends of our organization ” he said in a statement. “We ensure that our activities at all times remain in full compliance with the law and ethics rules.”America First Action has been a popular source of income for Trump loyalists  including Corey Lewandowski  and the president’s newly named re-election campaign manager  Brad Parscale. The group’s goal with the dinners is to connect supporters of Mr. Trump with policy leaders  and to give face time to the people who had shown the president the most support  a person with knowledge of the process said.In 2016  Mr. Cecchi and his wife  Mercedes  also hosted donors at his home. Mr. Cecchi who at one point was known as the “condo king” of Washington  is known for developing the Watergate complex.For that event  attendees had to pay $10 000 to $100 000 for a photo opportunity with Mr. Trump and the chance to mingle with Reince Priebus  then the chairman of the Republican National Committee  and Steven T. Mnuchin  the finance chairman at the time for the Trump campaign.Mr. Cecchi could not be reached for comment. When reached by telephone  Mr. Cecchi’s son John did not offer further details of the event.“Whatever he’s doing ” John Cecchi  who was on the host committee of the 2016 event  said of his father  “I’m sure he’s psyched about it.”Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Meets With Donors In Virginia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byBy Michelle GoldbergBecause there is broad consensus that Donald Trump is a lewd degenerate  nothing Stormy Daniels  the pornographic film actress and director  told “60 Minutes” about their alleged 2006 sexual encounter was particularly astonishing. (Though the mental image of Trump dropping his pants at Daniels’s command for a spanking will likely dampen libidos throughout the land.)Everyone knows Trump is a disloyal husband  so it’s no shock that he slept with Daniels — and  at about the same time  with the former Playboy model Karen McDougal — while his wife  Melania Trump  was caring for their new baby.Everyone also knows that Trump has a repulsive compulsion to sexualize his daughter Ivanka — he once happily concurred with Howard Stern that she was a “piece of ass” — so it’s not surprising that he told Daniels she reminded him of his child before he slept with her. (According to McDougal  Trump said something similar to her.)Nevertheless  the Daniels interview aired on Sunday was important  portending danger for both Trump and his personal lawyer Michael Cohen. As I’ve written before  the Daniels affair is a corruption scandal disguised as a sex scandal. And on the corruption front  we learned things on Sunday that could help unravel Trump’s wretched presidency.Daniels’s most shocking disclosure was her account of being threatened  apparently on Trump’s behalf  in 2011  a few weeks after agreeing to tell her story to a gossip magazine for $15 000. She said she was in a parking lot with her infant daughter when a man approached and said: “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.” Then  she said  he looked at the baby and warned  “A beautiful little girl — it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”There was another  less direct threat earlier this year  Daniels said  after The Wall Street Journal reported that Cohen had arranged a $130 000 hush money payment to her before the 2016 election. Both her former attorney and her former business manager  she told “60 Minutes ” pressured her to sign statements denying the tryst and the payoff  saying of the Trump camp  “They can make your life hell in many different ways.”In a statement from his lawyer on Monday  Cohen denied threatening Daniels  and said he didn’t believe the parking lot encounter ever happened. But Michael Avenatti  the aggressive  mediagenic lawyer who took on Daniels’s case this year  is convinced the attempted intimidation originated with the Trump camp  and he told me he “absolutely” has evidence about the threat that has not yet become public.Avenatti has been strategically — if maddeningly — coy about just what he’s holding back. Last Thursday  he tweeted  “If ‘a picture is worth a thousand words ’ how many words is this worth? ” accompanied by a photo of a CD or DVD. Whatever was on that disc  we didn’t see it on Sunday. “In no way would we play our entire hand on ‘60 Minutes ’” he told me.Of course  he could be bluffing. But if he’s not  this case could provide a crucial window into Trump’s thuggish way of doing business.Right now  Daniels and Avenatti are fighting to have the nondisclosure agreement she signed in 2016 declared null and void. If she signed it because she felt threatened  that strengthens her position. As the suit proceeds  said Norman Eisen  the chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington  “Stormy and her lawyer will be able to bring in a lot of evidence of other threats associated with Trump.”There’s already quite a bit in the public domain  some thanks to BuzzFeed News  which obtained F.B.I. reports on cases involving threats made by alleged Trump associates. In 1995  the site reported  security guards working for Trump “shoved  threatened and held a 12-year-old boy and his mother against their will ” in an attempt to silence a whistle-blower. In 2009  BuzzFeed News’s Jason Leopold wrote  a lawyer representing investors who stood to lose over $1 billion in Trump’s casino bankruptcy got a threatening phone call. We “know where you live and we’re going to your house for your wife and kids ” the caller said.If you can find this and more with a Google search  imagine what Avenatti might uncover through the legal process of discovery.The fact-finding potential of the case expanded further on Monday  when Avenatti filed a revised complaint in Federal District Court in California. The part that made headlines is that Daniels is now suing Cohen for defamation. More significant  though  is Avenatti’s claim that the original hush agreement is invalid in part because it “was entered with the illegal aim  design and purpose of circumventing federal campaign finance law.”If the case proceeds  Avenatti could get a look inside the Trump campaign. “The amended allegations will provide me and my team with significantly more discovery relating to what Mr. Trump knew  when he knew about it  and what he did about it  if anything ” Avenatti told me on Monday evening.Will the new strategy work? “I think it’s well done ” Eisen told me  though far from a sure thing. I don’t want to get my hopes up about a porn star saving the republic. But I can scarcely think of a more satisfying way for this terrible era to end.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@michelleinbklyn) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardIn a last-minute move that would give Republicans an advantage in maintaining control of the House of Representatives  the Trump administration is reinstating a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. Coming from an administration that has been hostile toward immigrants  the change was not surprising  but it’s galling nonetheless.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross announced the decision Monday  less than a week before the Census Bureau  which his department oversees  is supposed to send final questions for the 2020 census to Congress. If his decision stands — the attorney general of California has filed a lawsuit to block it  and other elected officials are preparing to do so — it would be the first time in 70 years that the federal government has asked people to specify their citizenship status on the census form sent to every household.This is important because the census count determines how many House seats each state gets. The census is also used to determine the allocation of more than $600 billion in federal spending  including Medicaid  food stamps and grants to schools. Asking about citizenship would reduce responses from immigrant families  which are already less likely than others to answer government surveys and are terrified by President Trump’s anti-immigrant policies and statements. An inaccurate count is likely to provide more representation to states with fewer immigrants and higher response rates and take seats away from states like California where response rates would be lower. Given the geography of American politics  that would probably lead to more power for Republicans  and less for Democrats. Experts say even citizens and permanent residents would be less likely to respond if they have relatives who are undocumented immigrants.Mr. Ross’s decision was based on the disingenuous argument that the Department of Justice needs to know the citizenship status of residents in each census tract so it can better protect the rights of minority voters under the Voting Rights Act. Even putting aside the laughable notion that this administration cares about minority voting rights  this argument is bunkum — the Justice Department has been enforcing that law without access to such data for decades. The last census that asked people to report their citizenship status was conducted in 1950  15 years before the Voting Rights Act became law. What’s more  the Justice Department already has access to citizenship data through the American Community Survey  which is conducted every year.The timing of this change is highly suspect. It comes too late to be included in a field test of the 2020 census the government is conducting right now with 275 000 households in Providence County  R.I. In his memo  Mr. Ross sought to play down concerns that the citizenship question would reduce response rates by claiming there was no “empirical evidence” to back up that argument. Yet  by seeking to insert the question so late in the process  he has prevented officials from empirically testing how people will react to it.The evidence that does exist shows that concerns that the citizenship question would curb participation are legitimate. The Census Bureau reported in a September memo that its surveyors were encountering significant resistance from immigrants about providing personal information because they feared it would not be kept confidential. “The immigrant is not going to trust the census employee when they are continuously hearing a contradicting message from the media every day threatening to deport immigrants ” one Arabic-speaking respondent told the bureau.Even Mr. Ross acknowledged in an October House hearing that adding questions to the census reduced response rates because “the more things you ask in those forms  the less likely you are to get them in.”This is not the first time the Trump administration has sought to compromise the integrity of the census. Last year  the bureau limited its field test to Rhode Island because  it said  it didn’t have the money for tests in Washington State and West Virginia. In his budget request to Congress  the president asked for a modest increase in census funds  far less than what most experts say is needed. (Last week  lawmakers increased the bureau’s budget by $1.34 billion  about twice what he had sought.) The administration has also undermined the bureau by failing to nominate a leader since the agency’s last permanent director left in June. And  until recently  the administration was considering as deputy director a political-science professor who has argued for partisan gerrymandering and against competitive elections.By now  many people have come to expect that Mr. Trump will inject politics into every decision. But even by this administration’s low standards  trifling with the census  which is required by the Constitution and is a foundation of American democracy  represents a serious breach of trust.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy MICHAEL D. SHEARMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump said Tuesday that several thousand Liberians who have been living in the United States under a temporary immigrant status will have one year to return to their country or they will face deportation.The president said in a memo to the secretary of state that he was formally ending a program that has allowed Liberian immigrants to remain in the United States and work legally since 1999  when President Bill Clinton established it in response to conditions in the country after a civil war.More than 800 000 Liberians were displaced by the war and fled the country. Some sought refuge in the United States.The program  known as Deferred Enforced Departure  has been renewed for Liberians since  giving the immigrants the ability to remain in the United States without fear of deportation. But in the memo  Mr. Trump cited the improved conditions in Liberia as evidence that the program was no longer needed.Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.“Liberia is no longer experiencing armed conflict and has made significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance ” Mr. Trump wrote. “Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts  which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals.”AdvertisementAdvocates for Liberians in the United States had urged Mr. Trump to simply extend the protections. Members of Congress from Minnesota  which has the largest Liberian population in the country  wrote a letter to Mr. Trump this month to echo those requests.Advertisement“Many of these people have been in our state for decades  and they are an important part of our communities  where they serve as business owners  teachers and health care workers ” the lawmakers wrote  asking for an extension of the program.On Tuesday  Emira Woods  a Liberian-American advocate for immigrants  described the president’s decision as a mixed bag. She noted the year that Liberians have before facing deportation  but said ending the program would force them to abandon lives in the United States. “Many of these Liberians had children in the United States ” she said.The Deferred Enforced Departure program for Liberians was scheduled to expire Saturday. Though he declined to renew the program  Mr. Trump ordered what he called an “orderly transition” so that Liberians living in the United States could get their affairs in order before returning to Liberia. That period will extend for 12 months  Mr. Trump wrote.The decision about the Liberian program mirrors the actions the Trump administration has taken toward other  larger groups of immigrants in the United States. Since taking office  the president has ended temporary protected status for certain immigrants from El Salvador  Haiti  Nicaragua and Sudan  arguing that conditions have improved significantly in those countries.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Temporary  Status Ends For Liberians In the U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 27  2018  5:39 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is ending a program that allows citizens of Liberia living in the U.S. to avoid deportation. But it's allowing a one-year "wind-down" period to ease their return.Liberians have been eligible for Deferred Enforcement Departure since 1999. The program  which began under President Bill Clinton  and was extended during the Bush and Obama administrations  allows people from the country to live and work legally in the U.S.  It's similar to another program called "Temporary Protected Status " which the Trump administration also has worked to scale back.In a memorandum issued Tuesday  President Donald Trump said Liberia is "no longer experiencing armed conflict" and has made "significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance.""Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts  which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals " he wrote.AdvertisementRight now  839 Liberian citizens have valid work status under the program  according to the Department of Homeland Security.To provide an "orderly transition" and give Liberia's government time to "reintegrate" citizens who have to return  beneficiaries will be given a 12-month window during which they're still allowed to live in the U.S. and work.AdvertisementThe protections  which Trump had until March 30 to renew  will now expire March 31  2019.We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementSupported byEditorialBy The Editorial BoardIn this time of political division  the broad story line of the omnibus spending bill approved late last week is largely a heartening one. With the Democratic leadership in full resistance mode and the Republicans facing a treacherous political climate in the fall elections  Congress repudiated President Trump’s extreme budget cuts in rare bipartisan fashion. In doing so  it protected a range of domestic programs the president had targeted for huge reductions  if not outright elimination  and sent an infuriated Mr. Trump scuttling off to Mar-a-Lago with yet another problem to worry about: a mediocre Congress making a lazy president look even worse by actually accomplishing something.A cynic observing this unusual Capitol Hill lovefest could plausibly argue that it’s easy enough for Republicans and Democrats to link arms when there’s serious money to be spent. And it is: There is plenty of old-fashioned pork in this bill. Even so  it is hard to argue with an outcome that preserved and in some cases increased funding for vital health  education  foreign aid  infrastructure and environmental programs while providing a fraction of what Mr. Trump wanted for his border wall — the presumed reason for his choleric withdrawal to his Florida fortress.There is another story line within the broader one  and it too is heartening: the willingness of the Democratic leadership to stand up to mischief-makers in Congress itself. A bill of this magnitude —$1.3 trillion altogether  including hundreds of billions for the military — is fertile ground for legislators who wish to sneak in provisions that are unlikely to survive on their own and thus need the protective cover of a big must-pass bill. As a rule  these so-called riders have nothing to do with spending and are aimed primarily at changing policy or undermining basic laws.Most of the most damaging riders in the bill were devised by Republicans and involved environmental policy. Among other things  they would have delayed enforcement of clean-air regulations  killed two Obama-era rules aimed at reducing greenhouse gases from oil and gas wells  weakened protections for endangered species and insulated the Trump administration from legal challenges to its efforts to repeal clean-water rules.That these and many more riders were deleted from the bill is a tribute to Senator Charles Schumer of New York  the Democratic leader  and Senate allies like Patrick Leahy of Vermont  Tom Udall of New Mexico and Thomas Carper of Delaware  all willing to annoy some powerful interests along the way. Lisa Murkowski  Republican from Alaska and chairwoman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee  had hoped to torpedo protections for old growth trees in Alaska’s forests. Thad Cochran  Republican from Mississippi  had hoped for a retirement present after 40 years in the Senate in the form of a flood-control project known as the Yazoo Pumps  a bad idea that has been kicking around for decades and would drain 200 000 acres of wetlands in the Mississippi Delta so that soybean farmers  who have drunk liberally from the public trough  could plant more crops. Both he and Ms. Murkowski were denied.The budget for the Environmental Protection Agency  which Mr. Trump proposed to cut by 31 percent  stayed even. Funding for energy-efficiency and renewable-energy programs  facing a 70 percent cut  went up. Money for the Land and Water Conservation Fund  a vehicle for protecting threatened open space  rose to $425 million  far more than the $64 million in the president’s budget.Congress’s generosity is unlikely to enlarge the cramped vision of the people who run the agencies most responsible for the environment — the E.P.A. and the Interior and Energy Departments — and whose driving impulse has been to roll back any Obama-era initiative that discomfits the coal  oil and gas industries. All in all  however  Friday was a sunny day for the environmental and scientific communities  which have known nothing but gloomy days since the moment Mr. Trump took office. It’s time they got a good one.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion)  and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONSAdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 26  2018  8:58 P.M. E.D.T.
(Reuters) - Elliott Broidy  a top Republican fundraiser  sued Qatar on Monday  accusing the Gulf state of pilfering and leaking emails in retribution for his attempts to influence the Trump administration in favor of regional rivals of Qatar.In the lawsuit  filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles  Broidy accused Qatar and its agents of hacking into his and his wife's email accounts and providing the stolen documents  via U.S.-based lobbyists  to media outlets in order to plant damaging articles about him.The lawsuit  which seeks unspecified damages  says some of the leaked materials were doctored."We believe the evidence is clear that a nation state is waging a sophisticated disinformation campaign against me in order to silence me " Broidy said in a statement.The lawsuit adds a new dimension to a diplomatic crisis in the Gulf set off when the United Arab Emirates  Saudi Arabia  Bahrain and Egypt imposed sanctions on Qatar last June.AdvertisementThe boycott was based on allegations that Qatar supports Islamic extremists and regional foe Iran. Qatar denies the charges.AdvertisementJassim Al-Thani  a spokesman at Qatar's embassy in Washington  described the lawsuit as an attempt by Broidy to divert attention from media scrutiny on his activities."It is Mr. Broidy  not Qatar  who orchestrated nefarious activities designed to influence Congress and American foreign policy " Al-Thani said in a statement.Broidy  a vocal critic of Qatar  met with Trump in September and tried to set up an informal meeting between the president and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan of the UAE  according to a person familiar with the matter.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.While the meeting did not materialize  the episode highlighted the influential role Broidy  the deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee  has developed in the administration.Broidy  whose company is based in California  finalized more than $200 million worth of defense contracts with the UAE government and is in talks on similar deals with Saudi Arabia  the lawsuit says.Broidy cited several articles that he believes were prompted by the leaking of his emails and other documents.Broidy claims Al Jazeera published an article on March 8 based on falsified documents accusing him of entering into a lobbying contract in 2014 with a Russian bank under U.S. sanctions.Al Jazeera did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.Broidy accused Nicolas Muzin  a Washington-based lobbyist whose firm has a $300 000 per month contract with Qatar  of helping to wage a campaign to discredit Broidy's efforts to "educate the American people about Qatar." Muzin was also named as a defendant in the suit."Mr Broidy’s lawsuit is an obvious attempt to draw attention away from his controversial work  and is as flimsy as the promises he reportedly made to his clients " Muzin said in a statement  saying he was proud of the work he did for Qatar.Advertisement(Reporting by Nathan Layne and Karen Freifeld in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »After 21 years  “Roseanne” returns to ABC  and Roseanne Barr’s portrait of working-class Americans is as topical as ever.By PATRICK HEALYMARCH 27  2018
When last we saw Roseanne Conner  in 1997  the character was sitting alone on that old living room couch  after revealing that her husband  Dan  had died of a heart attack and that all nine seasons of “Roseanne” had been a grief-induced fantasy about her family. (Or something like that.)Now Roseanne is back  the fantasy is out and Trump is in.The show’s Emmy-winning star  Roseanne Barr  returns Tuesday night to ABC with a nine-episode revival season. Dan’s back too  once again played by John Goodman  as is daughter Darlene (Sara Gilbert  who is also an executive producer) and much of the original cast.“Roseanne” was a bona fide trailblazer the first time around  with its focus on blue-collar Americans  its diversity of L.G.B.T. characters  and its star — a woman who did not look or sound like a typical television female lead. The new “Roseanne” is topical in its own ways  starting with Roseanne Conner’s full-throated support for President Trump. Ms. Barr is a Trump backer as well  to the dismay of many fans; she argued on “Jimmy Kimmel” recently that supporting Mr. Trump was critical to keeping Mike Pence from the presidency.Ms. Barr  now 65 and living in Hawaii where she has a macadamia nut farm  recently spoke by phone with Patrick Healy  the politics editor and a former culture reporter and editor at The Times  about the “Roseanne” revival  her stormy past on the show  her views on women in Hollywood and her feelings about President Trump. This interview has been edited and condensed.AdvertisementIt’s been 21 years since “Roseanne” went off the air. Did you miss being Roseanne Conner?No. I did a lot of other things.You ran for president in 2012. What was that about?To bring up questions and conversation that I wasn’t hearing anywhere. Specifically  how the public’s money never ends up going to the public.Why play Roseanne again?Everybody seemed to be into it and  you know  the conditions that I wanted were right.AdvertisementWhat conditions?I wanted somebody else to do the work that I wasn’t good at  and to let me do the work that I was good at. I don’t like arguing with people. I just am over it and I don’t like fighting. So I got — Sara Gilbert stepped into that role nicely.The last time around  you were the star and the idea engine for the show  but you threatened to quit  over creative conflicts. It was incredible this time. I was very protected and respected. I wasn’t having to explain why I wanted things.Thirty years ago when “Roseanne” started  what were you treated like?I was just not respected as a woman artist  but you know I think I paid my dues and some time passed and the world changed.Do you think women have more opportunities today in Hollywood to tell the stories they want to tell?I don’t know. There’s a lot more women who are featured  but I don’t know if they are doing what they really want to do.Did you have any worries about coming back to the role? No. I was excited to do it because I realized that was going to be the only opportunity I would get to act  because I’m kind of typecast as me. But I loved acting. And everybody really got a lot better in their acting chops  so that was great. How are you different than during the last run of “Roseanne”?Well  I’m older  and I’ve been through menopause  so that was great. I’m a grandma now. I’m older and wiser. I appreciate things better  and appreciate having an opportunity at age 65 to come back and do what I love to do.What kind of stories did you want to tell on the new “Roseanne”?How families are still struggling and what they do about it. There’s an arc in this season  and it’s the closest I’ve been to doing what I want to do. It’s about everything in our country. It’s about opioids and health care. How we deal with whole new issues that we didn’t even have before  like gender-fluid kids. How working class people — how and why they elected Trump.Get the most out of your screen time with movie and TV recommendations  news and commentary from New York Times experts.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Roseanne Conner has become a Trump supporter. How did that happen?I just wanted to have that dialogue about families torn apart by the election and their political differences of opinion and how we handle it. I thought that this was an important thing to say at this time.AdvertisementWas it your idea for Roseanne to back Trump?Yes. Because it’s an accurate portrayal of these people and people like them. In terms of what they think  and how they feel when they are the ones who send their kids over to fight. We’ve been in wars for a long  long time  which everybody seems to forget — but working class people don’t forget it because their kids are in it.Trump has had tough words for ABC. Did you get any pushback from ABC about making Roseanne a Trump supporter?Not from ABC  no.From who?Everyone else in the world.Why do you think?You know  people only want to see — they want to stick to their narrative and they don’t want it shaken up. But  you know  I was like  ‘Oh  here we go. I’m just the person for this job.’Considering that Trump opposes many of the principles that you and Roseanne Conner have stood for  how can you support him?No  he doesn’t  I don’t think he does. I don’t think so at all. I think he voices them quite well.I’m thinking of abortion rights  same-sex marriage rights  labor protections —He doesn’t oppose same-sex marriage.He doesn’t favor it. He has not come out in favor of it.He does. Yes  he does. He has said it several times  you know  that he’s not homophobic at all.AdvertisementWhat about labor union protections and blue collar workers  and What do you mean  the — oh  let’s not get into this.[A representative for Ms. Barr interjected: “You don’t have to get into it. We can move on.”]Well  you know  it’s —Yes  let’s do.A question people wonder about.Well  I think working-class people were pissed off about Clinton and NAFTA  so let’s start there. That’s what broke all the unions and we lost all our jobs  so I think that’s a large part of why they voted for Trump because they didn’t want to see it continue  where our jobs are shipped away. So  it’s more  why did people support shipping our jobs away?Why is Trump O.K. but Pence is objectionable  by your lights?I think Pence is not as good as Trump  not as accepting  and not as  you know — I think that he’s way more radical.O.K. Let’s talk about the impact “Roseanne” had as a show. I remember your same-sex kiss with Mariel Hemingway in 1994 and all the queer characters on her show. Do you think that paved the way for the L.G.B.T. characters that followed?I don’t know. You’ll have to ask somebody else. It’s not up to me to say those things.But you thought those were important stories at the time  right?I wouldn’t have taken the heat that I took if I didn’t think it was an important thing to do. Just like now. I’m taking a lot of heat  and if I didn’t think that I was right and that it was important  by God  I wouldn’t be doing it.
                Before the reboot arrives  revisit some of the family sitcom’s smartest  funniest and most poignant episodes.            How has America changed since the first incarnation of “Roseanne”? How has that affected the current show’s humor?AdvertisementSame jokes  same kind of thing. Just trying to get through paycheck to paycheck and handle it. Having no jobs and people losing their homes and you know that never  ever being talked about on television.How did you guys address whether to have John come back since his character Dan is dead?I always knew how I would do it  and I wrote it. Once John was in  I thought  well  I’m going to get a chance to continue the story that I always wanted to tell.A lot of fans are wondering  how should we regard Dan’s death?Well  I can’t tip it. You’ll see in the first show.A lot of people thought the last season of “Roseanne” was pretty bad. In hindsight  do you?No. I love it. I just watched a few of them and they were really funny. It was a departure though  but once you see why  you know I think it explains it all.How many seasons do you think the new Roseanne will continue?We all want to keep doing it so we just hope people like it and they watch it  and it gets renewed  you know  we all want that.Is there a new character or story line you think is kind of a trailblazer  like the show was the last time around?I like that Darlene’s a mom now because my kids are all parents. I thought that would ring a bell with most people  my age anyway. Like what are you doing with these kids? And it’s fun to have Darlene and her kids living in the house because we really get to dissect and discuss parenting.Do you have an arc in mind for the next season if it comes to be?Oh  yeah  of course I do. A family grows older.Is Dan still alive?Oh  yeah  hopefully. Hopefully we’re all going to be alive.A version of this article appears in print on April 1  2018  on Page AR12 of the New York edition with the headline: Roseanne on the Older  Newer ‘Roseanne’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy REUTERSMARCH 27  2018  11:35 P.M. E.D.T.
WASHINGTON —  Leaders of Orange County  California on Tuesday voted to join a federal lawsuit against the state's sanctuary law as part of a growing backlash in some conservative parts of California to state laws that protect illegal immigrants from deportation.The board of supervisors of the Republican-controlled county voted unanimously to condemn a California law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities  according to county records.The U.S. Justice Department sued California this month over its immigration laws  a move California's Democratic Governor Jerry Brown said was akin to declaring war on the most populous U.S. state.The issue of illegal immigrants has become increasingly heated in the United States since Donald Trump became president in 2017 and signaled that he planned to target a wider swath of people for deportation.AdvertisementU.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made combating illegal immigration a top priority and is trying to crack down on primarily Democrat-governed cities and states that he claims are "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants.AdvertisementEarlier on Tuesday  the U.S. Justice Department and West Palm Beach  Florida agreed to settle a lawsuit over whether the city was promoting "sanctuary city" policies to protect illegal immigrants from deportation.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Under the deal  the city agreed to tell all its employees via a memo that they were permitted to share information such as citizenship status with the Department of Homeland Security during the course of their job.The Democratic-leaning city sued the U.S. government in February  after the Justice Department sent it a letter demanding it hand over documents to prove it was complying with a federal law that requires municipalities to share information with immigration officials about inmates housed in local jails.The Justice Department has tried to block cities with sanctuary policies from receiving federal grant funding  leading to legal battles across the country.West Palm Beach is one of 23 cities and states - including New York  Los Angeles and Chicago - that received letters from the Justice Department in January demanding documentary proof of compliance with the law.(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andrew Hay; Editing by Leslie Adler and Sam Holmes)We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.Go to Home Page »AdvertisementBy MAGGIE HABERMAN and NICHOLAS FANDOSMARCH 27  2018
WASHINGTON — President Trump wants to replace his secretary of veterans affairs  David Shulkin  but for a man who practically trademarked “You’re fired ” the president is reluctant to pull the trigger  choosing instead to leave the embattled secretary twisting amid reports of his imminent ouster.Mr. Shulkin  a former hospital executive and medical doctor who remains widely popular on Capitol Hill  has so far averted his gaze from the White House and pressed on with his duties  albeit with a diminished profile.The peculiar  painful dance between the president and his once-prized veterans affairs chief has become a symbol for how Mr. Trump often handles personnel matters — publicly  without concern for ending the drama quickly  and with a hope that offending employees will decide to leave instead of forcing the president to oust them. In this case  the standoff has left rudderless a vast federal bureaucracy of about 370 000 employees that serves more than 20 million veterans.Exactly when the latest White House drama would conclude was still uncertain on Tuesday. Mr. Trump told friends over the weekend that he planned to fire Mr. Shulkin in the immediate future. But Monday came and went without any change and the president’s advisers said he had no clear option for an immediate successor.AdvertisementRaj Shah  a deputy White House press secretary  told reporters on Monday afternoon that he had “no personnel announcements to make at this time ” when asked to characterize the relationship between the two men.AdvertisementThe reversal of fortunes for Mr. Shulkin  a rare holdover from the Obama administration  has been swift. For months  as Mr. Shulkin delivered a series of bipartisan legislative victories to a White House badly in need of them  Mr. Trump showered him in praise. At one such bill-signing ceremony in June  Mr. Trump teased that the secretary need never worry about hearing his “Apprentice”-era catchphrase  “You’re fired.”But that support began to erode in February  after the department’s inspector general released a blistering report that found “serious derelictions” related to a business trip taken by the secretary to Britain and Denmark last year. It concluded that the secretary had spent much of the trip sightseeing and improperly accepted Wimbledon tickets as a gift.The report provided ammunition for Mr. Shulkin’s critics within the department  who had increasingly broken with the secretary over how to approach one of the White House’s top policy priorities: the expansion of government-subsidized private health care for veterans. A handful of officials — including his two top communications deputies — worked behind the scenes to try to use the document to build support for his ouster.Perhaps more consequentially for Mr. Shulkin  Mr. Trump’s advisers say White House officials began to believe that Mr. Shulkin misled them about what would be in the report  which ushered in a new round of negative news media reports on the president’s cabinet. He made matters worse  they said  when he botched attempts to clean up the story and went public with fears about appointees “trying to undermine the department from within.”What you need to know to start your day  delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.As stories about potential replacements began to circulate in mid-March  Mr. Trump summoned Mr. Shulkin to the Oval Office for what one person briefed on the discussion described as a tense meeting. An aide to Mr. Shulkin disputed that characterization.Mr. Shulkin has played down speculation about his departure as he has testified about the department’s budget request for the coming fiscal year and met privately with lawmakers to discuss pending legislation to remake the department’s approach to private care. He was scheduled to host a regular meeting on Thursday with leaders of the nation’s largest veterans groups.But he has proceeded with a curtailed public profile. The secretary was not on hand for a veterans event at the White House on Friday  for instance  and he is now hurried in and out of events by a security detail without taking questions from the press. Those who have spoken with the secretary said he had made it clear that he wanted to continue in the department’s top job  but was increasingly isolated.AdvertisementAshleigh F. Barry  a spokeswoman for the secretary  said on Tuesday only that Mr. Shulkin was focused on the work of the department.The speculation and mixed messages coming out of the White House have flummoxed key lawmakers in both parties  who continue to support the secretary  as well as many of the major veterans groups  which are congressionally chartered and largely apolitical. Organizations such as the Veterans of Foreign Wars and American Legion hold considerable sway over veterans policy in Washington  and they solidly back Mr. Shulkin.Though the groups were generally displeased with the findings turned up by the inspector general  they see the secretary as a pragmatic and effective leader who understands the challenges facing the department’s sprawling health care system and has taken concrete steps to address them.“We are disappointed about all this speculation that is happening because we feel that the secretary has done a good job of leading the V.A. in a positive direction ” said Garry Augustine  the executive director of Disabled American Veterans.The groups and lawmakers on Capitol Hill are closely watching for candidates to replace Mr. Shulkin  many of them fearful that the White House might try to use the nomination to advance a long-held conservative goal of shifting more of the department’s health care to private doctors. A nominee seen as too aggressive on privatization would likely face a difficult path to confirmation in the Senate  where Republicans have only the narrowest of majorities and several key Republicans have indicated an uneasiness with several of the names floated by people close to the White House.Those candidates include Jeff Miller  a former Florida congressman who led the House Veterans Affairs Committee and is now a lobbyist in Washington; Keith Kellogg  a retired three-star Army general who serves as the chief of staff of the National Security Council; and Leo Mackay Jr.  a former deputy secretary at the department who is now an executive at Lockheed Martin. Mr. Trump has also discussed the job with Energy Secretary Rick Perry.Another potential nominee  Pete Hegseth  is said to be uninterested in the nomination. Mr. Hegseth is a weekend co-host of “Fox & Friends” who formerly ran Concerned Veterans for America  a conservative veterans advocacy group backed by the billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch. The group has led the push to let veterans use their government benefits at private doctors.In the meantime  Mr. Shulkin may not be the only department official on his way out. Several high-ranking officials opposed to the secretary have indicated that they  too  intend to leave. Darin Selnick  an influential conservative voice on veterans issues within the administration  departed a position on the White House’s Domestic Policy Council on Friday and has decided to leave the administration entirely. Others  including the department’s assistant secretaries for communications and legislative affairs and its press secretary  have indicated to allies that they are searching for jobs elsewhere in the administration.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook  Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on March 28  2018  on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Awkward Silence on V.A. Chief From Man With Catchphrase of ‘You’re Fired’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.See More »Go to Home Page »